Matthew Murphy, 4, places a rose on a tombstone beside his father, Kevin Murphy, of Springfield, Va., during a volunteer event at Arlington National Cemetery ahead of Memorial Day on May 26, 2019, in Arlington, Va. (Tom Brenner/Getty Images)
This Memorial Day, a New Birth of Freedom
On Memorial Day, we honor those soldiers who gave their lives for our country.
In the Gettysburg Address, perhaps the greatest reflection in our history on such sacrifice, Abraham Lincoln refers to the fallen soldiers as having given “the last full measure of devotion.”
In our nation’s present crisis, we can learn from the devotion of which Lincoln spoke more than 150 years ago.
Speaking after the Union had won a decisive battle, he begins his address by saying: “Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, on this continent, a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure.”
This Memorial Day we are, thankfully, not fighting a civil war, but we are nonetheless engaged in a struggle for the soul of our nation.
Dangerous new ideas are challenging whether we can remain a nation “conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.”
Of course, the very meaning of equality is contested these days. Some seek to turn society in the direction of socialism in order to ensure we all have the exact same conditions of life.
The Declaration of Independence, which Lincoln highly admired, says we are “created equal.” We are equal in that all possess God-given rights. These confer on us the right to pursue happiness, but don’t guarantee anyone any particular outcome.
Critical race theory creates division in our nation as it seeks to make us unequal.
It teaches that some of us are, by virtue of skin color, racists and oppressors, while others, by virtue of skin color, are morally superior.
The proponents of critical race theory often replace our traditional practices of liberty with coercion.
Individuals in corporations and schools are subjected to re-education sessions reminiscent of China’s Cultural Revolution in which they must confess their guilt. Those who don’t risk losing their jobs.
A new spirit of intolerance abounds in our land, and many refuse to give voice to their true beliefs for fear of being shunned or worse.
Behind critical race theory lies the specter of Marxism, dressed in new clothes. It seeks to inflame the wounds our nation carries from past racism in hopes of bringing on a disease fatal to our free republic.
But this Memorial Day offers us the opportunity to begin healing our distressed nation.
Lincoln concludes his remarks at Gettysburg by saying: “It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
This Memorial Day, we need to reflect deeply on the sacrifices of those we honor. They died in devotion to the idea of America, of a free country dedicated to the proposition of equality.
So, let us now dedicate ourselves to a “new birth of freedom.” Doing so, we will, with our acts, honor our fallen heroes in the most fitting manner and safeguard the meaning of their sacrifice.
It goes without saying that as we work to revive the principles of equality and freedom, we do so steadfastly but without seeking to make enemies of those whose positions we oppose.
Near the end of the bloodiest war in our nation’s history, Lincoln was able to say, in his Second Inaugural Address, “With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in to bind up the nation’s wounds.”
The strength of our republic lies in our “firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right.”
There are those—revolutionaries who seek to use our freedom to destroy that freedom—who wish the United States ill. These we oppose with all our might.
But the great majority of the advocates of critical race theory and other pernicious ideas are themselves the victims of bad education. While we are unrelenting in opposing their ideas, we treat them with charity. We understand that as poor ideas are replaced with better ones, everyone has a healthy role to play in realizing the destiny of our nation.~A deck crewman has covered up Loyce Deen while a decision is being made what to do with the aircraft, which sustained heavy battle damage. (Courtesy CDR Michael Cosgrove (Ret.), son of Robert D. Cosgrove via NavSource)
A Personal Memorial Day Memory: Introducing Loyce Deen of Altus, Oklahoma
Commentary
Pop, the uncle who raised me, carried with him for more than half a century a haunting memory from his time aboard the aircraft carrier Essex in World War II. Anti-aircraft fire had killed a turret gunner during a sortie. Pop, whose job it was to repair and prepare planes for the next mission, went up to inspect the plane as soon as it landed. What he encountered was a gruesome sight: the decapitated body of the turret gunner in a blood-soaked turret.
The captain of the Essex dispatched the ship’s chaplain to ask Pop if the plane could be patched up enough to fly again. Pop’s reply to the captain, via the chaplain/messenger, was, “Yes, but with all this blood in the tropical heat, it will stink to high heaven. I recommend we bury this man in the plane in which he had given his life for his country.” When the chaplain relayed Pop’s message to the captain up on the bridge, the captain turned to Pop and gave him the thumbs-up signal. The subsequent burial at sea was unique. It was the only time during World War II that a still-flightworthy aircraft was used as a coffin.
The burial scene was included in the 1950s series “Victory at Sea.” Pop saw it for the first time when the series was rebroadcast in the 1990s. Seeing that footage from onboard the Essex kicked Pop’s disturbing memories into overdrive. For years afterward he would often retell that vivid story late at night after consuming copious quantities of Jim Beam.
The story didn’t end for me with Pop’s passing in 1999. Several years later, I stumbled onto a website about the airman who was buried in his plane. (The website, by the way, includes the footage of the burial at sea.) Suddenly, I knew the man’s name, his family background, and details of his military service. The man who lost his life on that aircraft that day was Loyce Edward Deen of Altus, Oklahoma. The fatal flight took place on Nov. 5, 1944, in the Battle of Manila. The three-crew plane was the Grumman TBM (torpedo bomber) V-15.
The young Oklahoman seems like the kind of neighbor, classmate, friend, and comrade in arms that everybody would love to have. Loyce was his parents’ seventh child. He was followed four years later by one last sibling, a brother with Down’s Syndrome. Loyce was very close to his kid brother, but sadly, this brother died when Loyce was in 8th grade. Three years later, his mom had a stroke. Loyce helped care for her until she passed away about a month later.
In 1942, Loyce joined the Navy. On Oct. 24, 1944, his foot was wounded by shrapnel in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Heroically, he simply wrapped his foot and continued to fight on both the 24th and 25th. At month-end, Loyce had the option of recuperating on a hospital ship until his foot mended. Instead, he insisted on staying with his two crewmates, pilot Lt. Robert Cosgrove and Radioman Donald “Digby” Denzek. Character, courage, loyalty, and love—Loyce Deen had them in spades. It was people like him who made the USA great.
The next week, on Nov. 5, at the age of 23, Loyce was killed instantly by anti-aircraft fire during a sortie. One memorable detail is the stoicism of Loyce’s crewmates. Denzek reported to Cosgrove over the intercom that “Deen was hit bad.” “Hit bad”—what a compassionate and wise euphemism. Denzek didn’t want to grieve or distract Cosgrove with the distressing news of their friend’s death when the 24-year-old pilot still faced the nerve-wracking task of flying a damaged aircraft two anxious hours back to the Essex.
I feel like I knew Loyce Deen, even though our lifespans didn’t overlap and I’ve never met anyone who actually knew him. “Knowing” him has made a significant difference in my life. The most important male relatives in my life all saw combat in either World War II or Vietnam, but—thank you, Lord—none was killed in action. For most of my life, then, Memorial Day was always more of a general than a specific remembrance. That all changed when I found the Loyce Deen website. (Thank you, Gregg Mastriforte, webmaster.) My Memorial Days are now fuller and more meaningful than before because of the dramatic way in which Loyce crossed paths with Pop.
I’m sure the descendants of Loyce’s brothers and sisters know what a good man and great hero their great-uncle was. Through this article, I hope many more people will know about him. On Memorial Day, 2021, this solemn, reverential holiday, may all patriotic Americans honor the memory of tens of thousands of America’s best—people like Loyce Deen—who gave their lives that we and countless others might live in liberty. Thank you, Loyce. God bless you. And God bless all the other Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country.
Mark Hendrickson, an economist, recently retired from the faculty of Grove City College, where he remains a fellow for economic and social policy at the Institute for Faith and Freedom.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Sanction Hong Kong Officials for Torturing Britons
4 to 16 cases of Britons tortured in Hong Kong since 2019, city is no longer safe
Commentary
According to the British government, between four and sixteen allegations of ”mistreatment and torture” against British nationals in Hong Kong occurred since December 2019. Before that, only a single case in 2017 had been recorded against a Briton. This alone merits an increase in Magnitsky human rights sanctions against Hong Kong officials, and their families.
However, cases of mistreatment against others in Hong Kong are a much more serious problem. Last year, a human rights group released a report of 45 testimonies of torture at the hands of Hong Kong police, including “severe assault, excessive use of force, sexual harassment, verbal humiliation, threats of violence, and delayed access to medical or legal assistance while under police control,” according to the Hong Kong Free Press.
There are similar allegations from Pakistanis, Thais, and other non-Europeans. “Detainees have complained about ill-treatment by the guards who had allegedly subjected them to verbal and psychological abuse, and had not provided them with a hygienic environment during detention,” Anna Tsui of a detainee rights group told the South China Morning Post.
Detainee abuse is so bad in Hong Kong that in 2020, inmates of the Tuen Mun center went on hunger strike. All of these cases of human rights abuse of defenseless detainees merit increased Magnitsky sanctions against the officials responsible.
Jimmy Lai, founder of Apple Daily, arrives at the Court of Final Appeal ahead a bail hearing in Hong Kong, China, on Feb. 9, 2021. (Anthony Kwan/Getty Images)
The mistreatment of Britons was reported by the city’s South China Morning Post as tension between Britain and China are on the rise, including over increasing political control imposed by Beijing against the city, which used to be a British colony. A June 2020 National Security Law (NSL) that outlawed political speech supporting Hong Kong’s independence has extraterritorial reach. That means if you vocalize your support for Hong Kong independence, anywhere on the globe, China could try and extradite you for the “offense.” Come to think of it, Hong Kong should be independent.
The exact number of tortured Britons in Hong Kong is unknown to the public as Britain only released the number as “less than five” Britons tortured in December 2019, plus another one to four cases in each of three summer months in 2020. The total cases of torture since December 2019 could therefore be anywhere between four and sixteen. Britain does not want to tell us the exact number, ostensibly in order to honor the privacy of the tortured.
The first case of mistreatment and torture of a Briton in Hong Kong occurred shortly after the anti-government protests crescendoed in December 2019. Other cases occurred in the summer of 2020, shortly after the NSL was imposed by Beijing on the formerly independent city. But according to the Post, “Sources with knowledge of the matter said the cases in the summer of 2020 ‘were not political nor protest related, and were unrelated to the national security law.’”
Thus Britons in Hong Kong could have been arrested for run-of-the-mill infractions, and tortured and mistreated in the process. Nobody is safe. For reference, other countries in which Britons were allegedly mistreated or tortured are Nigeria, Cambodia, and Iraq. Those are the friends that Hong Kong, which should now be seen as a de facto part of China, is keeping. Not a good place to find oneself on holiday.
There were two political cases in 2019 for which British authorities examined allegations of torture and mistreatment. Simon Cheng Man-kit, a British National Overseas (BNO) passport holder was arrested on the mainland-managed side of Kowloon’s high-speed rail terminus in August 2019 after a business trip. He was detained in Shenzhen for two weeks and then released to Hong Kong. Britain’s Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab protested against the alleged mistreatment with a November 2019 summons of China’s ambassador in London.
When the foreign secretary of a country summons an ambassador, the point is to protest and humiliate the ambassador by forcing him or her to come for the meeting. It isn’t a date for tea and crumpets. The ambassador is the one getting chewed out.
In mid-November 2019, the Hong Kong police besieged democracy protesters at the Polytechnic University. It was a violent affair that included plenty of bricks, and a bow and arrow wielded by protesters. A British human rights activist who was observing was detained overnight, then released without charge.
Riot police detain a man as they clear protesters taking part in a rally against a new national security law in Hong Kong on the 23rd anniversary of the city’s handover from Britain to China on July 1, 2020. (Dale de la Rey/AFP via Getty Images)
In February 2021, the British government warned Britons, including those with dual Chinese citizenship, that they could no longer expect to receive consular assistance. In April, British authorities advised British detainees in Hong Kong about the possibility of transfer of legal cases to mainland courts, and trial without jury.
Regarding the most recent revelations, a British government spokesman told the Post, “Ongoing arrests under the national security law are being used as a pretext to silence opposition and attack Hong Kong’s rights and freedoms. We continue to raise our concerns about the law directly with the Hong Kong and Chinese governments.”
Unfortunately, the Hong Kong and Chinese governments are basically one and the same now. They don’t care what Britain has to say. They care what Britain, and its big ally the United States, does. Pretty soon they won’t care much about that either, because we won’t be able to do anything of importance. So as a first step, it’s time for the United States, European Union, and Britain to impose tough Magnitsky sanctions against all Hong Kong officials, and their families, who are responsible for human rights abuse against detainees.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Central and Eastern Europe Help Show the Path Forward
Commentary
I’m writing from Warsaw, Poland, making for both my first time venturing behind the old Iron Curtain and my first trip back to Europe since the onset of COVID-19. Despite the overcast weather endemic to this part of the globe, the mood on the ground is unmistakably buoyant. Poland, along with its fellow Visegrad Group member Central European nations of Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic—and perhaps also including nearby Austria—has emerged as a perhaps-unlikely ground zero in the fight to save Western civilization from a debilitating and increasingly all-encompassing liberal decadence.
The sad history of the region continues to pervade daily life here. Locals routinely respond to questions about what sites tourists should visit in one of two ways: “The Nazis destroyed everything in the war” or, “The Soviet occupation ruined everything.” Few regions in the world know totalitarian repression and occupation like this area of the blood-soaked European continent does. The Visegrad states, which have rarely tasted national independence over the vicissitudes of the past millennium, felt the full brunt of both Nazi fascism and Soviet communism in all-too-recent memory.
The silver lining, and the reason this region is so interesting from a contemporary economic and geopolitical perspective, is that out of the joint tyrannical fires of Nazism and communism were forged, in the decades following the fall of the Berlin Wall, a robust appreciation for the integrity of the independent nation-state and the importance of Judeo-Christian-inspired societal goals, such as family formation and fortified communitarian ties. Put more simply, the four Visegrad states and Austria have emerged as veritable redoubts of traditional Western values and substantive political priorities, such as national borders, immigration properly limited to promote assimilation and intergenerational cultural stability, and the transcendental meaning and fulfillment that only religion can provide.
In Austria, the precocious Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is a reliable conservative who, at age 34, is the youngest head of government in the world. In Poland, the ruling Law and Justice Party is a right-wing national conservative bulwark that cozied up to the Trump administration and is now properly skeptical of both Vladimir Putin-led Russian predations and Angela Merkel-led staunch European integration. In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban is often lambasted as an “authoritarian” by the predictable Western media critics, but in reality, he has overseen a successful national revival characterized by the continent’s—and arguably the world’s—preeminent family-centric public policy agenda.
These leaders are unabashed about the superiority of their unique cultural and national heritages over the Brussels-based European Union siren song, publicly defensive of the Judeo-Christian code and its manifest goodness, and unapologetically sided with the United States over Russia and Israel over Hamas terrorists. As the post-Trump American right continues to cohere and slowly finds itself, it should look to modern Central and Eastern Europe for some concrete pointers.
For instance, whereas these states properly guard their distinct nationalities despite a past marked by frequent conflict, shifting borders and occupation by nefarious empires such as the Third Reich and the Soviet Union, America is concurrently in the throes of an enervating identity crisis of “1619 Project”- and “critical race theory”-inspired racial fractiousness and national self-doubt, despite a history where, some deeply lamentable pitfalls notwithstanding, there is still far more to take pride in than to lament. Americans can and should look eastward—past Paris and Berlin—for inspiration on how both substantive policy and even sheer rhetoric can help foster a culture of national pride and civic cohesion. If Poland and Hungary can take pride in their distinct national identities and ways of life despite everything this part of the world has suffered through, then surely Americans can do the same.
Many conservatives in America are currently lost in the wilderness and trying to find themselves. All around us, the shortcomings of post-Cold War neoliberal globalism are increasingly clear. The time is now to theorize and put into action a more sober, restrained, traditionalist strand of national conservative thought. That strand of thought elevates family, culture, community, nation, home and hearth over universalism and the liberal imperium. In so conceiving of and promulgating such a conservatism, Americans could do a lot worse than look to the ascendant nations and economies of Central and Eastern Europe.
Josh Hammer, a constitutional attorney by training, is an opinion editor for Newsweek, a podcast contributor with BlazeTV, of counsel at First Liberty Institute, and a syndicated columnist.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A Wall Street sign hangs at the New York Stock Exchange at Wall Street in New York on March 23, 2021. (Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images)
Wall Street Has Officially Thrown In Its Lot With Beijing
Beijing opens up wealth management, the final frontier for Wall Street in China
Commentary
Despite tensions between Beijing and Washington ratcheting up over the last five years, Wall Street firms have steadily increased their business footprint in China while carefully navigating the political whirlwinds.
But recent events involving the two of the most important firms on Wall Street signal that the industry is resolute in making China its most important growth market.
In other words, the die has been cast and there is no turning back.
On May 25, New York-based investment bank Goldman Sachs won approval from Beijing regulators for a 51 percent ownership stake in a wealth management joint venture with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), one of China’s biggest commercial banks.
Also in May, BlackRock—the world’s biggest asset manager with almost $9 trillion in assets—received approval to set up a wealth management business, of which it will own 50.1 percent, along with its partners China Construction Bank and Temasek, Singapore’s sovereign fund.
The moves follow earlier announcements by European asset managers Amundi and Schroders who won approval for Chinese domestic partnerships last year with Bank of China and Bank of Communications. In March, JPMorgan Chase obtained a minority stake in a China Merchants Bank wealth management subsidiary.
Goldman and BlackRock are not the first movers, but their latest expansion into China is the most important. Goldman is perhaps the most preeminent Wall Street investment bank and its foothold in China’s wealth management sector is sure to attract followers. BlackRock, whose chief executive Larry Fink has been bullish on China for years, is considered an innovator among traditional asset managers.
A common thread among these partnerships is wealth management. It is the final (and potentially most lucrative) frontier for Wall Street in China.
How so? Wall Street firms have walked a long road to gain traction in China. Over the last decade, Beijing has slowly opened its financial markets to the West, by first allowing foreign capital to invest in its onshore markets and participate in gains (and losses) and more recently allowing majority owned onshore subsidiaries. China only recently allowed majority foreign ownership of domestic investment banks and brokerage firms, granting Wall Street a cut of the fees arising from underwriting new stocks and bonds. And in late May, China’s central bank raised the limit on how much small lenders and foreign banks operating in China can borrow offshore (e.g. in dollars), which increases the ability of foreign banks to further expand within China.
But Beijing’s loosening of the wealth management industry is a game changer. China is a nation of savers. China’s wave of nouveau riche has a pile of cash to invest. And China’s wealth management market largely depends on retail and digital distribution. Wall Street firms’ Chinese partners would presumably help with the sales and distribution channels.
It gives Wall Street a potentially massive revenue source—earning fees from managing the assets of its large population and growing middle class. In other words, this allows Wall Street to make money off Chinese retail customers. And unlike investment banking fees, these asset management fees are a more stable and recurring source of revenue.
Potential Conflicts
As with any firm operating in China, there are heightened governmental and regulatory risks. And these risks are even greater in the financial industry, where regulatory compliance is so critical to execution of strategy. Even Chinese firms could be severely punished if they cross Beijing authorities, evidenced by fintech giant Ant Group’s sudden cancellation of its initial public offering late last year.
Wall Street could be put in conflict between China and the United States, especially as their operations in the world’s No. 2 economy become a sizable portion of their business. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) could hold powerful influence over Wall Street if relations between the United States and China continue to deteriorate. Wall Street’s powerful lobbies in Washington could be mobilized to indirectly aid China’s interests if the Wall Street firms’ Chinese businesses are sufficiently threatened.
Over the last few months, fashion and apparel conglomerates that discontinued use of Xinjiang cotton due to mistreatment of the Uyghur ethnic group, were publicly reprimanded by China and Chinese consumers on social media, impacting their Chinese sales revenues. Also in late May, actor and former professional wrestler John Cena issued a public apology to China after he named Taiwan as a country in a previous interview with Taiwanese journalists. His comments, which were widely criticized in China, could negatively impact the box office sales of the upcoming Universal Pictures film “Fast & Furious 9.”
These incidents, while unrelated to the financial services industry, are examples of the ongoing conflicts foreign companies face while operating in China. For example, Beijing could induce Chinese customers to pull assets from foreign wealth managers if the parent company executives acted in a way that was perceived to be “offensive” to the CCP.
There’s another longer-term risk to the United States. Given the pipeline of Wall Street executives who eventually hold high level posts in U.S. government after they leave their posts, the years of collaboration with China and the CCP could indirectly influence their later political decision-making.
In particular, Goldman has a long list of alumni who later worked in government, including former Treasury Secretaries Hank Paulson and Steven Mnuchin, former Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn, former New Jersey governor Jon Corzine, and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The cast of the television comedy "Friends" (From L-R:) Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow, Jennifer Aniston, and David Schwimmer pose with their award at the 26th People's Choice Awards in Pasadena, Calif., on Jan. 9, 2000. (Lucy Nicholson/AFP via Getty Images)
‘Friends’ No More: China Censors Lady Gaga, BTS, Justin Bieber From Reunion Episode
Commentary
“In China, the reunion episode of ‘Friends’ was all about grudges,” writes the brilliant Paul Mozur in the New York Times. “The problem wasn’t ‘Friends,’ but the friends of ‘Friends.’”
Three Chinese video platforms streamed the reunion episode of “Friends” on May 27. But the latest episode of the 1990s American sitcom, beloved by many Chinese who learned English watching it, was censored. Appearances by Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga, and BTS, a K-pop group, had been cut. These superstars committed the crime of thinking, and saying, the wrong thing, and are now erased from Chinese telecom. What were their crimes?
In 2016, Lady Gaga met the Dalai Lama, an exiled Tibetan leader renowned for his spirituality. Since then, her fandom has been gagged in China.
In 2014, Justin Bieber posted a snap from Tokyo’s Yasukuni Shrine. It honors Japan’s war dead from World War II. China persists in using the memory of World War II, as it uses the Opium Wars of Britain, to propagandize against these now democratic and reformed countries. They aren’t what they used to be, yet the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will not let it go.
Most amazing was the censorship of South Korea’s BTS, which when remembering the difficulties of the Korean War, failed to acknowledge China’s “sacrifice,” even though the CCP was one of the aggressors, along with North Korea, in that horrific violence against the South.
Perhaps to avoid such expensive awkwardness, the star of “Fast and Furious 9,” or “F9” for short, John Cena, kowtowed to Beijing this week by apologizing profusely and in Mandarin for referring to Taiwan as a country. Mr. Cena posted the video apology on Weibo, a Chinese social network similar to Twitter, that boasts 222 million active users. In China, “F9” grossed $135 million last weekend. Eighty-three percent of its international revenues were in China. This weekend’s receipts were now at risk.
“Now I have to say one thing which is very, very, very important: I love and respect China and Chinese people,” Cena gushed in the video. “I’m very sorry for my mistakes. Sorry. Sorry. I’m really sorry. You have to understand that I love and respect China and Chinese people.”
I was embarrassed for him. It’s not quite the American tough-guy image with which he wrestled fame from the jaws of defeat. His crime? Saying to a Taiwan broadcaster that “Taiwan is the first country that can watch” his new film. Cringe.
He ought now to apologize to Taiwan, for apologizing about calling it a country. It is a country.
Thousands of Weibo users rejected Cena’s apology. One posted, “Please say ‘Taiwan is part of China’ in Chinese. Otherwise, we will not accept your apology.” It was liked thousands of times.
In that moment, Cena symbolized a humbled America. Captain America kowtowing to Beijing for crumbs, over issues like Tibet, Hong Kong, the Tiananmen Square Massacre, and Xinjiang (East Turkistan) that we ought to stand up for on principle.
Imagine a world without Lady Gaga, BTS, and Justin Bieber. Imagine a world in which our professional wrestlers salute the Chinese Communist flag (which is different than the Chinese flag) before jumping in the ring. No more red-white-and-blue underpants.
Imagine telling your kids and their friends they can’t listen to what they want, see what they want, and read what they want. This is the world that the Chinese Communist Party is offering. This is the China Dream.
Even if you dislike all these superstars, and never appreciated those flag pants, you should appreciate, or re-appreciate, the First Amendment that protects them all for those who do like them. Remember it from high school?
“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.”
The First Amendment is illegal in China. “Friends,” Americans, get your mojo back before it’s illegal in America.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~CONMEBOL President Alejandro Dominguez during the Copa America Argentina-Colombia 2020 Draw in Cartagena, Colombia, on Dec. 3, 2019. (Luisa Gonzalez/Reuters)
Brazil to Host Copa America as Pandemic-Hit Argentina Withdraws
ASUNCION/RIO DE JANEIRO—The Copa America soccer tournament will take place in Brazil next month, the South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL) said on Monday, thanking President Jair Bolsonaro for stepping in after original host Argentina pulled out following a surge of COVID-19 cases.
The decision means the oldest international tournament in the world will kick off as planned on June 13, with the final on July 10.
The tournament is set to feature many of the greatest players in the soccer world, with Argentines Lionel Messi and Sergio Aguero, Brazilian Neymar and Uruguay’s Luis Suarez among those expected to participate. CONMEBOL has promised all players will be vaccinated before the tournament begins.
“The Brazilian government has shown agility and decisive thinking at a crucial moment for South American football,” CONMEBOL president Alejandro Dominguez said in a statement.
“Brazil is in a time of stability, it has proven infrastructure and recent experience in hosting a tournament of this magnitude.”
Brazil hosted the Copa America in 2019 and the World Cup in 2014.
In a separate tweet, CONMEBOL thanked Bolsonaro for “opening the country’s doors to what is now the safest sporting event in the world.”
The president’s office directed questions to the sport department at the Ministry of Citizenship, which did not respond to a request for comment.~Protesters march past LAPD officers during a demonstration over the death of George Floyd, in Los Angeles, Calif., on June 6, 2020. (Kyle Grillot/AFP via Getty Images)
Defund Police Unions, Not the Police
Commentary
As a relatively new state senator, I did my best to work across the aisle.
One example is my assisting Sen. Mark Leno (D-San Francisco) in February 2016 when I coauthored one of his more ambitious bills. It was Senate Bill 1286, which addressed police officers and their records of misconduct. If approved, this legislation would have required that “personnel records and records relating to complaints against peace officers and custodial officers to be [made] available for public inspection pursuant to the California Public Records Act.”
The bill passed through the Senate Public Safety Committee with five votes; the two Republican members did not vote for the bill. At the time, Steven Greenhut of the Orange County Register opined in favor of SB 1286.
Greenhut wrote: “Because of a 2006 state Supreme Court decision, Californians have had virtually no access to information about police officers who may have engaged in pattern of misbehaviors or who have been involved in multiple shootings. In Copley Press v. Superior Court, the San Diego Union-Tribune sought access to the disciplinary hearing of a San Diego deputy sheriff who appealed his termination.
“The far-reaching ruling blocked the public’s access to information that previously was available and that remains widely accessible in most other states. A 2010 report by the Investigative Fund found that 25 of 27 Fresno police officers who were involved in repeated shootings remained on the force. The Copley decision meant the public had no right to learn who they were. That can allow bad officers to fester within a department.”
The bill was forwarded to the Senate Appropriations Committee, where controversial bills are put on suspense and never see the light of day again. It is like getting a veto before even getting the chance to have a senate floor debate. And this was the outcome with SB 1286.
One can correctly assume that all the public safety unions and associations in California put significant pressure on Sen. Ricardo Lara, the then-chair of appropriations, to kill the bill. They wanted personnel files to be kept confidential. He accommodated that demand.
No wonder Greenhut observed: “Perhaps the nation wouldn’t be facing so much turmoil over police use-of-force issues if there were fewer union prerogatives and more accountability.”
Two years later, Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) would ask me to coauthor a similar bill.
It also passed through the Senate Public Safety Committee, this time receiving two votes in opposition by the Republican members. It would go to Senate Appropriations and this time be forwarded on, despite the two Republican members voting in opposition.
It then was passed on the senate floor with 25 votes, with me being the only Republican to support the bill. It would pass with the same votes on concurrence to accept amendments made by the assembly and barely passed on the Assembly Floor, with 44 votes. It was signed by Gov. Jerry Brown on September 30, 2018.
Why was I the independent Republican? Because eight years on the Orange County Board of Supervisors was an eye-opening experience. There were some 30 lawsuits against the sheriff’s department when I took office.
I learned about the “code of silence.”
I had to deal with the tragic death of John Derek Chamberlain, leading to my creating the Office of Independent Review to monitor the Sheriff’s Department and its employees when acts of misconduct were perpetrated.
What has this transparency law, SB 1421, wrought? According to one recent account, “Troves of misconduct cases emerge from records—Incidents include a deputy romancing a woman while on duty, jailer pummeling an inmate.”
The public employee unions for public safety employees did not want the public to see the underbelly of what occurs when police officers and deputy sheriffs leave the reservation. The nonsense was kept confidential from the general public.
No more.
The good news is that bad behavior by police officers and deputy sheriffs should rapidly decrease. This is good for those who protect and serve us every day at the risk of losing their own lives. It is also good for taxpayers, who should not be subsidizing and unknowingly condoning inappropriate behavior.
Why do we have an occasional rogue officer? With their unions keeping bad behavior secret, they previously could get away with literally anything. And, with these same unions using misinformation and misleading and false claims in political mailers, it enables police officers to lie as well.
Recently, it was reported that two California state prison guards lied about an inmate who had been decapitated by his cellmate, stating that he was alive when they performed their inspections. This behavior must stop.
We need to give our police and county sheriff’s departments all the tools to run pristine and honorable forces. Giving them a tool to address bad apples was long overdue. SB 1421 will increase the public’s trust in those who wear the badge to protect us.
On the anniversary of the tragic George Floyd asphyxiation, let us do our best to encourage excellence in policing. This is not the time to defund police, but it would not hurt to defund police unions, as they have been a negative influence on those they represent.
John Moorlach is a former Orange County Supervisor who most recently served as a state senator. He previously spent 12 years as Orange County’s Treasurer-Tax Collector, and led the county out of bankruptcy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~People walk past a giant inflatable representation of Prime Minister Boris Johnson outside the Mill House Leisure Center where the count process for the Parliamentary by-election is taking place in Hartlepool, England, on May 7, 2021. (Ian Forsyth/Getty Images)
Woke Democrat Fragility: A Warning From Britain
Commentary
After every election, pundits see the result as evidence of the terminal decline of the losing party. This is certainly the case in Britain, where the Labour Party suffered a catastrophic defeat in the recent local elections and the by-election in Hartlepool, a solidly Labour seat that the Tories won.
There have been many columns arguing that Labour has lost its core constituency and has little hope of commanding a parliamentary majority ever in the future. In the United States, such predictions routinely accompany Republican defeats in the polls, and this year is no exception.
What makes this year different is that we see diagnoses of a bleak future facing the Democrats, the winners who now control the presidency and both houses of Congress. Their supporters also dominate the commanding heights of the culture and economy, of the media, entertainment, education at all levels, Big Tech, Big Sport, Big Business, and Wall Street.
Is the triumph of American progressives built on sand? Is the Democrat glee at divisions in the GOP premature? Is the fate of the Labour Party in the UK a warning for the Democrats? The two parties are often compared in terms of their direction and demographics. Both have undergone profound shifts in ideology and base of support in recent years.
Is the Labour Party Dying?
Parties fade and die, sometimes unexpectedly and comprehensively. The Federalist Party in the United States faded quickly in the 19th century; Britain’s Liberal Party went into a sudden and comprehensive decline a century later. One of the reasons George Dangerfield cited for this collapse in his 1935 classic “The Strange Death of Liberal England” was the rise of the labor movement and a major political party based on it.
In the 20th century, the Labour Party gained the overwhelming support of industrial workers and their unions. Important working-class leaders rose through the ranks. But in recent years, the party has gone through some demographic shifts. The leadership is all university-educated, the industrial union members are outnumbered by public sector unions, and government employees are a large part of the party and its financing.
In the biggest vote in British history, that of the Brexit referendum of 2016, and the rift between the governing elites—the media, big business, the financial sector, education, and entertainment—and the majority of the working class, the Labour Party sided with the elites and their characterization of those who voted for sovereignty and independence as uneducated and xenophobic.
In the recent by-election in the northern city of Hartlepool, a traditional Labour stronghold that had voted overwhelmingly for Brexit in 2016, Labour ran as its candidate for Member of Parliament (MP) a Remainer, a supporter of the UK’s remaining in the European Union. He lost.
In response to Labour’s demographic and political shifts, culminating in the party’s massive defeat in the Hartlepool by-election and in local elections, Khalid Mahmood, a leader of the party and Parliament’s first Muslim MP, resigned from his ministerial position. He had this to say about what had gone wrong with his party:
“My view is simple: in the past decade, Labour has lost touch with ordinary British people. A London-based bourgeoisie, with the support of brigades of woke social media warriors, has effectively captured the party. They mean well, of course, but their politics—obsessed with identity, division and even tech utopianism—have more in common with those of Californian high society than the kind of people who voted in Hartlepool yesterday. The loudest voices in the Labour movement over the past year in particular have focused more on pulling down Churchill’s statue than they have on helping people pull themselves up in the world. No wonder it is doing better among rich urban liberals and young university graduates than it is amongst the most important part of its traditional electoral coalition, the working-class.”
Does this sound familiar?
A Warning for the Democrats
In his recent article in the New Statesman, Britain’s most successful left-of-center politician, Tony Blair (prime minister 1997–2007), argued that the steep decline of the Labour Party is typical of what’s happening to center and center-left parties all over Europe, including the French Socialist Party, the German SPD, and of the Spanish and Swedish left.
The Democrats are in a much stronger position. Or so it seems. They won control over both houses of Congress and the presidency. But, Blair argues, “the Biden victory was a heavy reaction not so much against the policies as the comportment of Trump. And in Biden, the Democrats nominated possibly the only potential leader who could have won.” Unlike Barack Obama in 2008, Joe Biden had no coattails and the party did poorly in state-level votes. The Democrats’ success in the 2020 election, however modest and whatever its causes, was the exception to the precipitous decline of such parties in the West.
We see in the United States a similar rift as in the UK and Europe between the main center-left or progressive party and its working-class supporters. Of the party’s program of Big State, tax, and spend, only the spending part is popular, and it’s what the Republicans also did under Trump. Its approach of expanding state regulation and control is unattractive. It’s an old-fashioned non-response to the fundamental economic transformation of our time, in internet technology, quantum computing, AI, financial payments, and defense.
This old-fashioned leftism, Blair argues, “is combined with a new-fashioned social/cultural message around extreme identity and anti-police politics which, for large swathes of people, is voter-repellent. ‘Defund the police’ may be the left’s most damaging political slogan since ‘the dictatorship of the proletariat.’ It leaves the right with an economic message which seems more practical, and a powerful cultural message around defending flag, family, and fireside traditional values. To top it off, the right evinces a pride in their nation, while parts of the left seem embarrassed by the very notion.”
The unions on which these parties rely for financing and political activity are in long-term decline. In the United States, public-sector union membership rates are more than five times higher than those in the private sector, where only 6.3 percent of workers were union members in 2020.
Race and Class
The Democrats have felt safe in neglecting areas of industrial decline ravaged by opioid addiction, high unemployment, and collapse of civil society in all its forms—voluntary associations, church, schools, and family. Such areas are predominantly white and working-class, seen as a declining demographic group. The numbers of racial and ethnic minorities rise through legal and illegal immigration while whites suffer declining fertility.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump tapped into the anger and despair of the white working class. Republicans and conservatives such as J.D. Vance and Tucker Carlson brought widespread attention to their plight. Trump, for all the nonstop attacks on him from the liberal propaganda machine that the legacy media inflicted, did better than had more tactful and moderate Republicans such as John McCain and Mitt Romney. In Democratic primaries, blacks preferred the reclusive Biden in the primaries to either Kamala Harris or Cory Booker.
The scorn and neglect on the part of urban progressive elites was reinforced by the intensely divisive woke ideology that saw race rather than class everywhere, denounced the country and its whole history as endemically racist, and regarded all criticism of its ever more anti-American, anti-family, anti-Christian ideology as the work of white supremacists.
The left has long had a patriotism problem that divides its intellectual vanguard from its working-class base. Writers and scholars, from George Orwell’s classic 1941 pamphlet to those who denounce critical race theory (CRT)—as a neo-racist, segregationist ideology that ascribes agency to whites and more or less a complete lack of it to blacks—have condemned the blindness of progressives to the oppressed people they champion in principle.
“Antiracism” of the CRT kind is an ideology of affluent woke white liberals. It appeals, argues scholar Shelby Steele, to the guilt or vulnerability of educated whites, focusing as it does on their feelings (including self-loathing and fear of being thought racist). It does nothing for blacks, beyond enriching leaders who receive large sums from corporations and the wealthy. Linguistics professor John McWhorter sees the current “antiracism” as a new religion, one that’s “actually harming his fellow Black Americans by infantilizing Black people, setting Black students up for failure, and passing policies that disproportionately damage Black communities.”
Are Democrats Desperate?
When Obama won the presidency and controlled both houses of Congress, he did so under the rules of the game. He didn’t seek to pack the Supreme Court or end the filibuster or add small Democratic strongholds to the list of states, each gaining two senators, or abolish the Electoral College, or talk about abolishing the Constitution and moving to a centralized one-person, one-vote system with no regard to regional representation—the approach that works so badly as in some Latin American countries.
If the Democrats and their supporters were confident that they could win without limiting free speech, canceling and deplatforming their adversaries, packing the Supreme Court, adding states, and eliminating the filibuster, they wouldn’t be eager to resort to such measures.
They know that many of their projects and policies—like defunding the police, criminalizing “misuse” of pronouns, or allowing irreversible experimental medical practices even for children, while banning other professional treatment approaches to treating gender dysphoria—are widely regarded as insane. They know parents strongly oppose, even if they dare not say so, the inclusion of transgender ideology in school curricula, requirements to admit biological males to women’s facilities and sporting competition, and the inculcation in their children of shame and guilt about their parents and their country.
On all these issues, there’s a wide gulf between the Democratic Party and affluent urban elites, and the mass of ordinary working people the party once relied on as a solid base of support.
The similarities between Britain’s Labour Party (as well as the European center-left parties) and the current American experience are striking. They make the Democrats’ current success look like an anomaly rather than the wave of the future.
Paul Adams writes on ethics, marriage and family, and social policy. He is professor emeritus of social work at the University of Hawaii. He has also taught at Case Western University and the University of Texas.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Manchester City fans in Porto ahead of the Champions League Final, in Porto, Portugal, on May 28, 2021. (Violeta Santos Moura/Reuters)
Portugal’s Government Under Fire Over Champions League Final
LISBON—Portugal’s government has come under fire from lawmakers for sending contradictory COVID-19 messages after allowing thousands of English soccer fans to party in Porto for Saturday’s Champions League final, despite coronavirus restrictions.
In the days leading up to Saturday’s final between Chelsea and Manchester City, big crowds of English fans, who were largely maskless and did not socially distance, took over Porto’s streets to drink and chant team slogans.
“The government and Porto’s mayor should apologize to the Portuguese, who, deprived of so much, are watching this disgrace in the midst of fighting the pandemic,” opposition leader Rui Rio wrote on Twitter.
However precautions were taken which meant all fans had to present a negative COVID-19 test on arrival in Portugal, which is on the British government’s “green” list allowing tourists to visit without quarantining on their return.
Portugal suffered a devastating COVID-19 outbreak earlier this year and masks are still mandatory outdoors if people cannot observe social distancing. Drinking in public places outside of licensed terraces remains prohibited.
Some 16,500 fans were allowed into the Dragao stadium in Porto, upsetting locals who have been banned from attending matches for months. Many other English fans traveled to the city to support their teams from the sidelines.
Francisco Rodrigues dos Santos, leader of Portugal’s right-wing CDS party, also criticized the government, saying it “adopted an absolutely contradictory and inconsistent approach.”
“The way the Champions League final was organised gave a bad image of Portugal and will have unpredictable consequences on public health,” he added.
Last week, a police source told Reuters Portuguese authorities did not have enough time to fully prepare for the final as UEFA only announced it would move the event to Porto from Istanbul around two weeks ago.
Portuguese authorities decided to relax COVID-19 rules for the match last week, no longer requiring fans to stay in “bubbles” and lifting restrictions on movement.
“It is not understandable to allow an event [to take place] that is not allowed to the majority of the citizens of this country,” said Left Bloc leader Catarina Martins.
Some health experts now fear the Portuguese will be less willing to adopt coronavirus preventive measures.
Portugal’s northern region health authority on Sunday asked all those who got close to any Champions League celebrations to monitor for COVID-19 symptoms and reduce contact with others over the next 14 days.
By Catarina Demony~Photos: The Profound Bond Between Mongolia’s Last Eagle Keepers and Their Mighty Birds
Venturing to Mongolia to meet the country’s last remaining nomadic eagle keepers, Russian photographer Daniel Kordan turned his reverence into a series of incredible photographs.
Kordan’s work, a breathtaking mixture of epic landscape photography and intimate portraiture, exemplifies the bond between the keepers and their birds—an elusive 1,000-year-old tradition that runs the risk of dying out.
Today, fewer than 300 men keep falconry in western Mongolia’s Altai region alive.
Skilled handlers train young birds of prey—golden eagles are preferred, although they are hard to train—to assist in hunting foxes and hares for meat and fur.
The practice is known to the nomads as berkutchi. Once the domain of the noble classes, berkutchi has become a right of passage for young Mongolian men of the region, reported My Modern Met.
“I’m fascinated by nomad culture,” Kordan, who used local guides to connect with nomad families, told the outlet.
“It’s an elusive culture, almost extinct nowadays,” he added. “But these people try to keep the tradition and pass it on through generations.”
“All nomad families are connected,” the photographer said. After meeting one family, doors opened; a Russian native, Kordan was able to speak easily with the elders who know Russian from Soviet times.
Eagle keepers forge a profound bond with their winged companions, and their lives are inextricably intertwined.
A day in the life of a keeper, said Kordan, begins early with meal preparation; caring for horses, sheep and goat herds; and making furs to fend off the bitter cold. In winter, nomad groups migrate thousands of kilometers across the Gobi Desert to warmer climes, deconstructing and reassembling their ger tents as they go.
“That’s lots of endurance and work,” he told the outlet.
Perhaps most surprising, Kordan said, was his realization that the Mongolian nomads enjoy their lives, despite hardship.
Caring for one bird can last over a decade. These mighty predators are usually released back into the wild when they turn 10 to 12 years old.
“The bond with the bird is so strong!” Kordan said. “Actually, even the eyes and the look of the eagle and its master resemble each other.”
Engrossed by the possibilities of photography since growing up in a beautiful lake region near Moscow, Kordan graduated art school and studied quantum physics before taking up residence behind the lens.
“Nature is my inspiration,” he states on his website.
In venturing to Mongolia and capturing his subjects on film, Kordan’s respect for eagle keeping grew exponentially. Now, the photographer, who leads workshops and expeditions himself, hopes that others will choose to help preserve these unique traditions.
The talented photographer oversees guided tours on camelback and an annual eagle-keeping festival, a smaller event than the nomads’ own berkutchi festival that has come to attract thousands of tourists.
Kordan’s festival is an opportunity for visitors to witness and photograph scenic displays of Mongolian falconry for themselves.
“I’m very happy that I can support nomadic culture in this way,” he told My Modern Met. “We need to respect our ancestors, and continuing to preserve traditional culture definitely makes our lives better and filled with purpose.”
Check more of Kordan’s fascinating work below. Enjoy!
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~President Joe Biden speaks at a Memorial Day event at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle, Del., on May 30, 2021. (Patrick Semansky/AP Photo)
Biden Attends Memorial Day Ceremony, Pays Tribute to Fallen Service Members
President Joe Biden marked Memorial Day with a speech at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia that made reference to U.S. soldiers who have died in past conflicts.
“We owe the honored dead a debt we can never fully repay,” Biden said. “We owe them our whole souls. We owe them our full best efforts to perfect the union for which they died.”
The president stated that the United States has to honor the sacrifices of generations of service members “by sustaining the best of America while honestly confronting all that we must do to make our nation fuller, freer, and more just.”
“Empathy is the fuel of democracy,” Biden said. “Our willingness to see each other not as enemies, neighbors, even when we disagree, to understand what the other is going through.”
The president also warned about creeping authoritarianism across the world and said the United States “was built on an idea, the only nation in the world built on an idea. Every other nation is built on ethnicity, geography, religion, etcetera. We were built on an idea, the idea of liberty, an opportunity for all.”
An honor guard stands at attention during a Memorial Day event attended by President Joe Biden at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle, Del., on May 30, 2021. (Patrick Semansky/AP Photo)
“Between dreams of democracy and appetites for autocracy, which we’re seeing around the world, our troops have fought this battle on fields around the world but also the battle of our time, and the mission falls to each of us each and every day,” Biden said.
Biden also spoke about the death of his own son, Beau, who served in the Iraq War. May 30 marked the sixth anniversary of his death.
“Remember their sacrifice, their valor, and their grace,” Biden said of fallen troops. “Remember their smiles, their loves, their laughter, their essential vibrant and transcendent humanity.
“To those who mourn a loved one today, Jill and I have some idea how you’re feeling. Our losses are not the same, but that black hole you feel in your chest, as if it’s going to suck you into it, we get.”
At one point he pulled out a card from his pocket and noted the number of soldiers who died during the Afghanistan and Iraq wars.
“Seven-thousand and thirty-six fallen angels who have lost their lives to these conflicts,” Biden said. “Duty, honor, and country—they lived for it, they died for it, and we as a nation are eternally grateful.”~China Is Destroying America’s PPE Industry: Subsidies, Tariffs Would Protect It for the Next Emergency
Commentary
China is destroying America’s fledgling personal protective equipment (PPE) industry. The industry, which produces American-made masks and gowns, is being driven out of business by China’s exports, priced below the cost of production even in China, according to an American manufacturing group.
That aggressive international trade tactic, called dumping, is illegal per WTO rules yet the Biden administration is allowing it to undermine an industry that we should be protecting as strategic and necessary for the next emergency, whether it be another pandemic or a war. America should never again allow itself to be dependent upon China for its PPE, because it is acting as an enemy of America, not a friend. To protect our PPE industry requires subsidies of American manufacturers, tariffs against cheap Chinese products, or most likely both.
The New York Times on May 29 published a major report on America’s PPE industry in decline because of China’s aggressive dumping of cheap PPE. It’s likely a purposeful strategy by Beijing, which wants to keep America dependent on China for life-saving medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. If America is dependent upon China, China’s path to global hegemony will be easier.
As mask mandates ease, two dozen American companies that started producing masks during the pandemic-induced supply shortages last year are facing a drop in demand just as a glut of cheap supply from China floods the American market. Some of China’s PPE exports to the United States are priced at just 7 percent of the going rate from American factories. So, the American factories can’t sell their products and are being forced to lay off skilled workers.
A worker produces test kits for COVID-19 in Nantong in China’s eastern Jiangsu Province on March 9, 2020. (Photo by STR/AFP via Getty Images)
At least three American PPE companies stopped producing medical masks and gowns in recent weeks. Others decreased production. Premium PPE in Virginia “laid off most of its 280 workers,” according to the Times. Co-owner of the company Brent Dillie told the paper, “Six months from now, many of us won’t be around and that won’t be good for America the next time there’s a national health emergency.”
The Biden administration should step up with subsidies to help American PPE companies retain or rehire its recently fired workers. It should also gradually increase tariffs on Chinese PPE companies to whatever is needed, say 1,500 percent, in order to ensure that Americans purchase their PPE from reliable suppliers who will be there for us in the next emergency.
Given that the United States and Canada had a spat over PPE during the pandemic, and European countries like Italy, Britain, and Ireland had spats over PPE and vaccine supplies, America should rely on nobody but ourselves for PPE and other life-saving material that will be scarce during the next global emergency. America is a big enough economy, and we need the jobs, so there is no reason, other than a few pennies per item, not to use stimulus economics to subsidize and protect American PPE manufacturers.
After all, the Biden administration has supposedly prioritized the shoring up of American manufacturing, and ensuring that medical workers never again have to scramble for PPE. So, President Joe Biden should put his money where his mouth is. His current policies to help America’s PPE manufacturers, including pressure for federal procurement of domestic supplies and the introduction of start-ups to hospital distributors, are not enough. Neither are mere plans to add billions of dollars worth of PPE to the Strategic National Stockpile at some unknown point in the future.
Senator Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) planned to file the Medical Supplies for Pandemics Act as an amendment to the upcoming $100 billion U.S. Innovation and Competition Act meant to bolster American competitiveness against China. That would be a good start, at least on the subsidy side.
“When the COVID-19 outbreak began last year, the Chinese government’s effort to cover up the severity while stockpiling critical medical supplies hindered the United States’ ability to respond to the pandemic and made clear that our country is far too reliant on foreign nations to deal with future pandemics,” said Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), the bill’s cosponsor, in a statement. The Act would authorize $500 million annually to incentivize domestic manufacturing of medical supplies.
But these future plans are not hitting hard and fast enough to save our PPE companies. Twenty-seven members of the American Mask Manufacturers Association have already laid off about fifty-percent of their workers. “Without concerted action from Washington,” according to the Times, “most of those companies will go belly up within the next two months.”
Industrial firm employees manufacture Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), like face shields, to supply New York’s health care workers and hospitals at the Brooklyn Navy Yard as New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio visits in New York City on March 26, 2020. (Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images)
Lloyd Armbrust, the CEO of a Texan mask-making company, told the Times, “We need the government’s support right now because unfair pressure from China is going to kill this new industry before the legislators even get a chance to fix the problem.”
Luis Arguello Jr, a vice president at DemeTech, which makes medical sutures in Florida, said to the paper, “This is full-on economic warfare. … China is on the mission to make sure no one in the industry survives, and so far they’re winning.”
The Biden administration is currently failing these manufacturing heroes of the pandemic. A U.S. Commerce Department spokesman declined to comment to the Times on whether “it would support an anticompetitive complaint against China” at the World Trade Organization. Instead he repeated the same old one-size-fits-all free-trade mantra that got us into the problem in the first place. The agency, wrote the spokesperson flatly, “continues to monitor market trends closely and assess options to ensure American manufacturers are competing on a level playing field.”
America’s pea-counter economists want to save a few pennies per mask after almost 600,000 U.S. deaths from COVID-19. I have news for the pea-counters: we are no longer playing a game with China. It’s a war. We need to protect our medical industry, not just throw them to China’s manufacturing wolves on a “level playing field.”
Experts say that PPE shortages during the pandemic likely explain some of the high infection rates of frontline heroes. More than 3,600 such frontline workers died from COVID-19 in 2020 alone. American masks that use domestic material cost 10 or 15 cents compared with some Chinese masks that go for 1 cent a piece. It should be worth at least 14 cents per mask to keep our American medical supply chain intact for the next emergency. The Biden administration better get smart on this, and quickly.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Security personnel stand guard outside the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan as members of the World Health Organization (WHO) team investigating the origins of COVID-19 make a visit to the institute in Wuhan, China, on Feb. 3, 2021. (Hector Retamal /AFP via Getty Images)
Biden’s Wuhan Cover-Up
Commentary
Reeling from revelations that the Biden administration shut down a State Department investigation into the origins of COVID-19, the Biden team is now trying to cover up their cover-up. Let’s examine what they were covering up in the first place, why it matters, and how the administration is now pretending to take action while not actually doing anything.
Late last year, the Trump administration, under the supervision of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, began a State Department probe into how COVID-19 got unleashed into the world, causing a global pandemic with millions of deaths and ruined economies and lives in its wake.
The investigation sought to determine whether COVID-19 came from the Wuhan meat market, as originally reported, or whether it came from the Wuhan virology lab that operates under the control of the Chinese Communist Party. As we now know, this is a legitimate inquiry and an open question.
Unknown to the American public, and indeed to people around the world, it turns out that the Wuhan virologists, in collaboration with virologists from America and other countries, were all doing so-called “gain of function” research. In plain language, this means creating deadly viruses, or more precisely, taking deadly viruses and making them more contagious and more lethal in the lab.
Isn’t it incredible that we are now, more than a year into the global epidemic, finding out about this? Imagine the level of deception from the scientific community, not to mention the U.S. government and the media, that is necessary to keep the public in the dark about something so chillingly relevant to their lives. Digital media literally banned and censored people for even hinting that COVID-19 might be a virus from a lab, branding such views “debunked” and “conspiracy theories.”
The Pompeo investigation, however, went beyond the question of where the virus came from. It was also aimed at examining a second, no less chilling, question: Did the communist Chinese regime deliberately release COVID-19 as a biological weapon? To begin to answer this question, Pompeo’s team was searching for evidence of collaboration between China’s biological weapons program and the virologists at Wuhan.
Consider now the importance of these inquiries and also their implications. How would the U.S. government and the world respond if it turned out that indeed COVID-19 was used as a biological weapon? The Chinese regime certainly had the opportunity. It also had a possible motive, to bring down Donald Trump in particular and the U.S. economy in general, and to improve China’s relative position in the world. Finally, who can doubt that the Chinese Communist Party is unscrupulous enough to be willing to do something so heinous?
Yet this is precisely the investigation that the Biden team secretly terminated. Their rationale was that Trump’s investigation was biased, it reinforced what Trump himself said about the origins of the virus, and it cherry-picked facts to support a preconceived theory. Since we don’t know what the Pompeo team found, it’s impossible to evaluate these accusations.
What we do know, however, is that the Biden team has its own preconceptions. Biden himself is compromised by his family’s highly lucrative business dealings in China. The Biden family has benefited from deals valued at billions of dollars, and Hunter Biden’s alleged laptop contains the clear suggestion that the “big man”—Biden himself—was getting a share. While it goes too far to say Biden is owned by China, it’s hardly an exaggeration to suggest that he’s financially obligated to China.
So it’s hardly a surprise that Biden seeks to protect the Chinese regime from its responsibility—whether direct or indirect—for COVID-19. Under fierce pressure from the disclosure of the cover-up, however, the Biden administration is now feigning a renewed investigative inquiry. Biden says he has asked the U.S. intelligence community to “redouble their efforts” to find out where exactly the virus came from.
Yet when pressed to say what he would do to force the Chinese regime to provide access and data that it has long denied, the Biden team basically said that their man would do nothing. Rather, he was hoping the World Health Organization, the very institution whose efforts have been controlled and rebuffed by Chinese authorities, would come up with something new.
The bottom line is that the Biden administration seems to have no genuine interest in forcing the issue. They seem more determined to have a thorough investigation of Jan. 6—completely unnecessary, since we know what happened on that day—than they do to thoroughly investigate an urgent matter of global health and American national security.
Even if, by some miracle, the truth came out, and it turned out China was directly responsible, what would Biden do? I’m pretty convinced the answer is nothing. How exposed, how vulnerable, how unsafe we all are in the hands of this administration.
Dinesh D’Souza is an author, filmmaker, and daily host of the Dinesh D’Souza podcast.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Video Shows Track Team Helping Fellow Runner Battling Cancer Cross Finish Line—and It Goes Viral
A high school track and field team in New York was caught on video helping their fellow runner, who is suffering from cancer, cross the finish line after enduring grueling treatment.
The video, posted by the school on Twitter, went viral and has inspired viewers across the internet.
Sherendehowa High School senior Yeva Klingbeil is shown being helped by three teammates to finish the race, before the rest of the team rush in to cheer and chant her name.
(Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
In November 2019, Yeva was diagnosed with a rare type of cancer called rhabdomyosarcoma, which affected her jaw. Before the devastating diagnosis, she was an active member of the school track team.
She began chemotherapy in 2019 to treat the cancerous mass deposit around her jaw. Unfortunately, the chemo did not go well and caused damage to her brain stem.
The damage had an adverse effect on her health. She became very weak, developed breathing complications, and lost her ability to swallow food and fluids.
She was placed in intensive care for several weeks, which saw her regain some of her functions.
Since then, the tumor around her jaw has shrunk to half its original size, though she still can’t swallow any food. She breathes on a ventilator and feeds through a tube.
Taking to Twitter, the school’s athletic department posted the video, showing the team’s excitement at having Yeva back by their side.
Yeva Klingbeil (second from the right). (Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
“What a great moment to see Senior Yeva Klingbeil at today’s girls’ track & field meet,” they captioned in the video.
“Yeva’s teammates help her across the line in the 4X1 relay. Yeva continues her fight with cancer and we continue to be amazed by her spirit!!”
The tweet garnered over 250,000 views, and judging from the number of shares and comments, followers are impressed and inspired by both Yeva and her teammates.
“This is what helps me keep my faith in humanity, despite all the bad that exists in this world,” commented Twitter user Charles Kuyper.
This was not the first time the team came through for Yeva. In November 2020, coach Cloutier organized a marathon to help raise funds for her hospital bill.
Though the team had aimed to raise $10,000, the marathon brought in a whopping $21,473.
The surplus was shared with Family Reach organization, which offers financial assistance to families with cancer patients.
“Yeva and her family pray her brain will continue healing and she will be able to breathe, walk and eat once again,” Cloutier wrote on Yeva’s fundraising page.
“While Yeva has gone through all of this and more, she has never stopped caring about her friends and family and has never given up hope of recovery.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Book Excerpt: ‘Wilful Blindness: How a Network of Narcos, Tycoons, and CCP Agents Infiltrated the West’
Book Excerpt
Killing the Golden Goose
“He loses his chips and stalks around like a caged tiger for a minute and then rushes out of the casino.”
In 2010, while Canada celebrated the Winter Olympics in Vancouver and the city was heralded as a global model of prosperity and livability—a small group of Gaming Policy and Enforcement Branch (GPEB) and RCMP investigators were in a different mood. The way Calvin Chrustie saw it, Vancouver was sort of like one of those exotically coloured tropical fish. On the surface, it’s beautiful. But the flesh is toxic.
So in Vancouver, under the sparkling veneer of wealth and health, torrents of dark money from China were flooding the casinos and empty condo towers. A new financial system based on secretive transactions had become the city’s economic centre of gravity. The two dominant sources of liquidity at opposite poles: drug money and capital flight from mainland China.
In a Nov. 24, 2010, letter to the Lottery Corp. executives, GPEB’s director of casino investigations, Derek Dickson, wrote that he was very concerned by a “dramatic increase” in suspicious cash transactions involving numerous patrons at Vancouver-area casinos. “It typically involves well-known LCT [large cash transaction] patrons that play baccarat and arrive with cash as a buy-in,” Dickson wrote. “We believe BCLC [British Columbia Lottery Corporation] needs to seek solutions to the obvious, and increasing, money-laundering that is occurring, particularly involving the flood of small denomination currency, within B.C. casinos.”
Cover of “Wilful Blindness: How a Network of Narcos, Tycoons and CCP Agents Infiltrated the West” by Sam Cooper. (Optimum Publishing International)
Dickson pointed to one particular high roller who completed $3.9 million in cash buy-ins in just eight weeks. The man, who supposedly owned coal mines in China, was one of a Big Circle Boys-linked alleged money launderer’s all-time top clients. In the two-month binge, the man used almost all $20s. Night after night, he brought in about $200,000 cash—wrapped in rubber bands in bricks of $10,000—stashed in gym bags. In one case, Sha quickly lost $330,000 playing baccarat.
A GPEB investigator who viewed the incriminating surveillance tape couldn’t get over the imagery: “He loses his chips and stalks around like a caged tiger for a minute and then rushes out of the casino.”
The man was immediately met by a car at the casino’s front door and handed “an object” from the trunk. And he walked back inside to gamble with the contents of the bag—$325,000 in casino chips. In his letter, Dickson informed the Lottery Corp. that he and GPEB director Joe Schalk had met with Inspector Barry Baxter of the RCMP’s Integrated Proceeds of Crime (IPOC) team, “and they are well aware of the issue and are seriously concerned that the casinos are being used as a method to launder large sums of money for organized crime groups.”
But the Lottery Corp. refused to accept this view. As long as these foreign baccarat high rollers presented a picture I.D., claimed to be involved in a business of some sort, and had some history of gambling in B.C. government casinos, the Lottery Corp. considered the cash clean. No questions asked.
And in an argument that particularly galled GPEB, the Lottery Corp. asserted that Chinese VIPs had a cultural preference for gambling with bags of cash—for them, cash was lucky—so it was inappropriate to invade their privacy and view duffel bags of cash with suspicion. This was the kind of stupidity that burned Schalk, a former RCMP officer. Schalk and his GPEB colleagues were getting the feeling that B.C.’s government actually welcomed dirty money from visitors who claimed to be “industrialists.”
“There could or may be a significant difference between what a person ‘states’ and what is real. Financial institutions do not simply go by way of what a person ‘states,’” Schalk wrote to Lottery Corp. executives. “B.C. Lottery Corp. has stated for years they are instituting a ‘rigorous anti-money-laundering strategy.’ However, over just the past ten months, reported incidents of suspicious currency transactions and money-laundering have more than tripled over the previous year.”
Meanwhile, Fintrac records showed the Lottery Corp. had made 37,000 large cash transaction reports—casino chip purchases of at least $10,000 per transaction (minimum $370 million)—in 2009. The large transaction reports would surge to 70,000 (over $1 billion) in 2012. And Lottery Corp. casinos would rake in $1.6 billion in gross revenue. It was almost all cash, almost all from the “upstairs” private baccarat rooms in a few casinos around Richmond and Vancouver, and the lion’s share was coming from an extremely small portion of Chinese whales.
But you could almost set your watch to it.
Every five years or so, a scandalous B.C. Lottery Corp. story would surface, and the government would have to respond to the waves of media attention.
In January 2011, a CBC story exposed the sharp divide between Dickson, Schalk, and Baxter on one side and the senior B.C. officials that Fred Pinnock, former head of B.C.’s anti-illegal gaming unit, had already clashed with on the other.
An anti-fentanyl advertisment is seen on a sidewalk in downtown Vancouver on April 11, 2017. (The Canadian Press/Jonathan Hayward)
In just three months in 2010 there were 90 large cash transactions at the River Rock Casino in Richmond and the Starlight in New Westminster, CBC reported, for a total of $8 million. And while the dollar value of suspicious transactions had tripled in B.C. Lottery Corp. casinos in 2010, the stats had dropped or remained the same in casinos across the rest of Canada. In the Starlight Casino, in the spring of 2010, GPEB reports showed that a man carrying a bag with $1.2 million in casino chips walked in and immediately asked staff to convert the chips to cash. The VIP wanted to fly to a Montreal casino but he was concerned that customs officials would be suspicious of his luggage—about 115 pounds worth of paper bills. He was the biggest gambler in B.C. at the time, according to GPEB’s report. So he requested a confirmation letter from the casino saying the money was a casino payout. And the staff gave the man his letter. And here’s the stunner. Senior casino staff knew the man was supplied by a barred loan shark who was a suspect in the Big Circle Boys network, linked to cash deliveries and underground banking with the biggest baccarat players in Richmond. And an RCMP officer later looked at Dickson’s case and said the casino had effectively handed the man a “get out of jail free card” if the police tried to investigate him for money laundering.
Days later, a gambler walked into River Rock Casino with $460,000 in $20 bills and bought chips. The casino reported the large cash transaction, but noted “none of [the man’s] actions are suspicious.”
But that same month, the Lottery Corp’s new CEO, Jim Lightbody, didn’t seem at all concerned about risks presented by the alleged money launderer and his VIP clients.
In a Victoria Times Colonist report headlined, “High Rollers, Betting $100,000 a Hand, Boost Revenue for B.C. Casinos.” the newspaper reported BCLC expected to boost profits in 2015 “thanks to an influx of high-rolling gamblers from mainland China.”
The conclusion was obvious. Brad Desmarais, who was then BCLC’s vice president of casino and community gaming and is currently the COO, and his bosses did not want to confront the suspected source of funds in Chinese underground banking.
Lightbody said with lottery sales softening, “the Crown corporation and its partner casinos on the Lower Mainland have focused on attracting wealthy ‘industrialists and businessmen’ keen to play baccarat for up to $100,000 a hand.”
And the strategy enabled BCLC to surpass its target of $1.2 billion in net income from March 2014 to March 2015 “due to an increase in high-limit table revenue.”
“Lightbody said casinos have increased the number of private rooms or ‘salons’ and raised table limits to $100,000 from $5,000 a hand,” the Times Colonist reported. Lightbody said the baccarat salons mostly catered to Chinese VIPs who commonly bought in for $200,000 per casino visit and “prefer dealing in cash.”
The RCMP logo is seen outside an RCMP building in Surrey, B.C., on April 13, 2018. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press)
“So they do come in with bags full of money for their buy-ins,” Lightbody was quoted. “We know them very well. We know their source of wealth. We know all their personal information; they need to share that with us for regulatory reasons. These people are multimillionaires and, in some cases, billionaires.” And Lightbody was similarly effusive in a speech to staff at Lottery Corp. headquarters in Kamloops.
It didn’t sit well with Mike Hiller, who was not shy about speaking truth to power. Since the 1990s, very few Canadian investigators have had a better handle on North America’s heroin and fentanyl kingpins. Hiller was there for the major heroin importation busts in the 1990s in Vancouver and Victoria. He was there in Thailand, acting as a police liaison for investigations of the Canadian Big Circle Boys who would become bigger than El Chapo.
Hiller wrote an email to his direct boss, Desmarais, a former RCMP anti-gang officer. He believed that Desmarais and his superiors were looking for “alternative” explanations for the loan shark cash—rather than drug proceeds—and he had written to Desmarais about it before.
“I wasn’t surprised during our meeting in Kamloops to hear that we experienced greater profits last year from high stakes table games,” Hiller wrote on March 24, 2015. “This seems to be directly related to the increase in large cash buy-ins and suspicious transactions that I noticed for table games during the same period.”
The subject line of Hiller’s email cited his 2014 I-Trak report. Always the diligent investigator, he referred Desmarais to the evidence. The seminal report explained exactly where Big Circle Boys chiefs and the whales got their cash and how it was repaid in China.
“All but one of the Asian persons mentioned in the report have been the targets of a series of major drug investigations since the 1990s,” Hiller wrote to Desmarais. “I believe the persons mentioned in this report are responsible for an abundance of cash being supplied to our VIP players. They, and likely many more like them, have connections with our Asian VIP players on both sides of the Pacific. The familiar names we know to be delivering cash to our casinos are merely runners who are easily replaced. The volume of cash deliveries is a huge reputational risk.”
“Thanks, Mike,” Desmarais replied. “I do recall reading this before. Obviously, the drug connection is a huge concern, and we are attempting to engage a police response with respect to the main players in your report.”
“But I am resistant to branding all-cash facilitators as dealing in proceeds of crime,” Desmarais continued. “In my past life, we encountered many underground bankers who used other sources of cash. The purchase of real estate, luxury goods and cars is accelerating in the Lower Mainland, not diminishing.”
The conclusion was obvious. Desmarais and his bosses did not want to confront the suspected source of funds in Chinese underground banking. They were looking at the scales of the exotic fish, dazzled by its beauty. They ignored the poisoned flesh inside.
Excerpt from the book “Wilful Blindness: How a Network of Narcos, Tycoons, and CCP Agents Infiltrated the West,” by award-winning investigative journalist Sam Cooper, available from the publisher or local book retailers. Excerpt has been edited for style and some names have been removed. Published with the permission of Optimum Publishing International (OpiBooks.com).
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Key Issues About China’s Demographics Overlooked
Commentary
After China announced the results of its seventh national census, various criticisms immediately followed, mostly focusing on the serious distortion of facts.
Falsification of statistical data is a systemic disease that has existed in China since the founding of the Chinese communist regime. Before the authorities implemented the one-child policy in 1980, which aroused worldwide criticism, China’s population data was falsified in an under-reported manner because the Chinese authorities believed overpopulation was a headache back then. Now the situation is reversed—population data is still falsified but this time it is inflated.
Falsification is certainly a big problem. Nonetheless, when discussing China’s demographic issues, some analysts have overlooked the real problems.
First of all, population flow from economically underdeveloped areas to urban areas is not unique to China. The real problem is an ill economic structure.
I took a closer look at an issue that has been widely criticized. That is, based on the population in each province, it is obvious that there are more residents in the south and fewer in the north, more in the east and fewer in the west. Some northern and western provinces have already experienced negative population growth, showing a noticeably unbalanced population structure.
South China’s economy is more developed than the north, and the east is more prosperous than the west. Population migration from economically underdeveloped areas to relatively developed areas is a natural trend under the market economy, and this is true all over the world. The northeast has been declining and the west was underdeveloped to begin with, especially the desert areas in the northwest that are not suitable as human habitats. Nowadays, young adults in these areas can relocate to south and east China and they have survived, which not only indicates that the mobility of Chinese society has increased, but also proves that the contemporary youth have better adaptability than their parents’ generation. That is to say, unbalanced population distribution per se is not necessarily a problem.
Scavengers pick up useful construction waste from a garbage dump in Hefei, central China’s Anhui Province, on Dec. 9, 2012. China’s wealth gap has widened to a level where it is among the world’s most unequal nations, a Chinese academic institute said in a survey, as huge numbers of poor are left behind by the economic boom. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
The same is true in the United States. In recent years, there have been outbound migrations from New York, San Francisco, Chicago, and other cities. The Democratic-controlled states advocate political correctness. For instance, a large number of illegal immigrants moved into these states, BLM protests occur frequently, and taxation is heavy. As a result, many companies have chosen to leave and the economies in these states have declined. Naturally, these companies took away a group of employees, causing a population loss for these states, and the loss is mostly affluent residents.
For China, the key problem, a really serious one, is that the economic structure of China’s underdeveloped areas is abnormal, and many areas are not even financially self-sufficient.
For example, Foping county of Shaanxi Province has recently been hyped by the Chinese media for having a very low permanent population, a little over 8,000 in the entire county, while there are 2,194 people working in the local government and public institutions.
The county’s local fiscal revenue was 39.43 million yuan in 2018 and 36.6 million yuan in 2019. The fiscal expenditures in these two years were 800 million yuan and 797 million yuan respectively. It is a parasitic area that has to feed on the central government. The situation in Foping is somewhat extreme, but in remote Chinese counties, the lack of employment opportunities for local youth is a common phenomenon.
Based on the above analysis, discussing the imbalanced population distribution in China is a seemingly serious topic but a false problem. Due to differences in economic development and geological factors, no country in the world has an evenly distributed population in different regions. Only totalitarian regimes like to control population movement and believe it is normal for the population to be evenly distributed across all regions.
‘Aging Demographics’ With Chinese Characteristics
According to the United Nations standard, a country or region with an elderly population of more than 7 percent can be considered as entering an aging society, 14 percent or more means “moderate aging.”
Currently, the proportion of elderly people aged 65 and over in China has reached 13.5 percent, according to official data. Public opinion has been focused on the discussion that the aging problem is imminent, as if the livelihood problem of China’s elderly population should only be attributed to the excessively large number of seniors.
A “one-child” policy billboard saying, “Have less children, have a better life,” greets residents on the main street of Shuangwang, southern China’s Guangxi region in May 2017. (Goh Chai Hin/AFP via Getty Images)
The United Nations has released a report titled “World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision,” which forecasts the elderly population of various countries in 2014, 2030, and 2050.
Mankind is now in the middle stage of the 2014 to 2030 period.
In 2014, China ranked 52nd with an elderly population accounting for 14.4 percent. In the same year, 96 countries also obtained their national census data, which showed that there were 33 countries in the world where the elderly population exceeded 20 percent.
In the 2030 forecast, among the same 96 countries, China ranked 43rd with an elderly population of 23.8 percent in its total population. By 2030, 14 countries in the world will have more than 30 percent of the elderly population, among them Malta and Slovenia are the only two developing countries.
The countries that have a higher degree of aging population than China are mostly western countries. Only a few are developing countries such as Albania, Argentina, and Montenegro. Conversely, those countries that have a lower percentage of elderly population than China are mostly developing countries.
Among all countries with census records, Japan is facing the most serious aging problem. The elderly population in Japan was 32.8 percent in 2014 and projected to reach 37.5 percent in 2030. In contrast to China, Japan and the European Union countries have all largely solved the problem of taking care of the elderly, even though they have a higher percentage of senior population than that of China.
It can be seen that China’s issue of eldercare does not lie in the problem of an increasingly aging population per se, but the country’s pension and social welfare system, which is a political and economic policy issue. This is especially true when we consider that there are about 77 million elderly people in rural areas, a population group that faces the most serious livelihood problem as they basically have no social welfare such as medical insurance and pension.
Fewer Births Isn’t the Same as the Disappearance of Demographic Dividend
Some people equate declining birth rates with diminishing demographic dividend. It is actually very easy to debunk this statement.
The demographic data of the 96 countries listed by the aforementioned U.N. report showed that the countries with a high proportion of young people were mostly African and Middle Eastern countries, where birth rates were very high, as well as some Asian countries. Brazil, Turkey, Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, South Africa, India, Indonesia, Honduras, Iraq, Pakistan, Jordan, and Bangladesh were all in this category. But it so happens that these countries have the highest youth unemployment rates.
Fewer births/children is a big problem for individual families. It is said that in China, the number of elderly people who lost their only child has exceeded 2 million. As the Chinese traditionally rely on children to care for elderly parents, caring for bereaved parents is a problem that requires the collaborative support of the government and society. But from the perspective of the entire society, fewer births cannot be equated with the disappearance of the demographic dividend. Those who argued otherwise have overlooked a problem: the realization of the demographic dividend requires full or close to full employment of young people.
Ever since China started its “reform and opening up” about 40 years ago, it experienced several phases of rapid employment growth, and naturally realized a demographic dividend to the full extent. The growth in the 1990s was due to the influx of capital from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea. China later became the “world’s factory” after joining the World Trade Organization in 2001, and enjoyed a more booming phase in the years that followed.
However, since the 2010s, labor-intensive industries have been gradually moving out of China—its status as the “world’s factory” has begun to wane. It has become increasingly difficult for the youth to find employment, and a large number of them can’t leave the nest and continue to rely on their parents for financial support. The demographic dividend certainly cannot be realized during this time period.
Applicants look at recruitment information displayed at a labor market in Yiwu, China, on Feb. 19, 2016. (VCG/VCG via Getty Images)
To further illustrate this point, let’s do a simple comparison of the youth unemployment rates in different countries. It will help us understand how significant it was for China to have the demographic dividend it enjoyed in the golden decade from 2002 to 2012.
Youth unemployment is a global problem that has been a serious concern for more than 20 years. In October 2000, the International Labor Organization released the report “Global Employment Trends for Youth,” pointing out that during the 20 years between 1999 and 2019, the youth participation in the labor market dropped by 12 percentage points, from 53.1 to 41.2 percent, showing a global downward trend; yet the total number of young people increased by 300 million during the same period.
In terms of regional differences, the 2019 youth employment rate was the highest in North America, which was 52.6 percent. North Africa and the Arab region were the lowest at 27 percent. East Asia’s rate was 45.2 percent, higher than the global average of 41.2 percent.
It’s noteworthy that, as I mentioned earlier, these regions where youth employment rates were among the lowest have the highest percentage of young people. In other words, they were the least aging society. However, young people in these regions still do not have adequate employment opportunities, and these countries have also become the main source of refugees flowing into Europe since 2015.
Apparently, a younger demographic structure is only one of the conditions for realizing the demographic dividend, but this condition does not guarantee a good outcome.
In recent years, China’s status as the “world’s factory” is coming to an end, the industrial chain is being reshaped on a global scale, and the modern industrial system is more dependent on automation equipment and specialized skills. Correspondingly, the real problem is not the decline in birth rates, but the quality of the workforce.
Up to now, China is still the world’s most populous country, and it is heavily dependent on imports for major resources. For example, more than 60 percent of oil and 30 percent of food are imported. In terms of resources, it is a very fragile system.
For a country like China, it is extremely important to avoid the Malthusian trap and to treat its population and demographic problem in a rational manner.
He Qinglian is a prominent Chinese author and economist. Currently based in the United States, she authored “China’s Pitfalls,” which concerns corruption in China’s economic reform of the 1990s, and “The Fog of Censorship: Media Control in China,” which addresses the manipulation and restriction of the press. She regularly writes on contemporary Chinese social and economic issues.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Teachers Should Educate Students About Vaccines Without Pressuring Them
Commentary
Controversial topics often come up for discussion in the classroom. This can be good for learning, but only if teachers handle the discussion properly. There’s a fine line between a vigorous debate that leads to deeper understanding for students and a career-ending fight between teachers and parents.
Fortunately, skilled teachers know how to walk that line. Now, as provinces ramp up their COVID-19 vaccination campaigns, that skill is obviously more important than ever. Teachers need to provide accurate information about vaccines to their students while also respecting the right of students and their parents to make their own medical decisions.
Let’s start with some basic facts.
Regarding COVID-19 vaccines, the evidence is clear that the vaccines are both safe and effective. In fact, countries with high vaccination rates are seeing significant drops in hospitalization rates for COVID-19, and they’re beginning to loosen their restrictions. Two of the best-known success stories are Israel and the United Kingdom.
Israel rapidly vaccinated most of its population with the Pfizer vaccine while the United Kingdom relied primarily on the AstraZeneca vaccine. The dramatic drop in hospitalizations and deaths in both of these countries correlated with the distribution and administration of vaccines. While the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines work differently, the evidence shows that both are highly effective.
This doesn’t mean that there are zero risks in administering vaccines. Like most medical treatments, these vaccines come with possible side effects. The AstraZeneca vaccine is linked to rare (about 1 in 100,000) blood clots while a handful of adolescents and young adults have experienced myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) shortly after receiving the Pfizer vaccine.
However, it’s important to keep these adverse reactions in perspective. A handful of severe side effects from vaccines pales in comparison with the negative impact of COVID-19 on the lives of people. There’s no question that, for the vast majority of people, it’s far better to receive a vaccination than to contract COVID-19. In short, it makes sense to get vaccinated.
These are the facts that teachers need to share with their students. Given the significant amount of misinformation circulating about vaccines on social media, teachers need to help students distinguish between reliable and unreliable information. Students need to learn that some sources are better than others.
For example, it makes more sense to consult Health Canada and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for accurate vaccine information than to rely on internet memes, opinion articles from anti-vaccine websites, or anecdotes shared by random people on social media. Similarly, peer-reviewed articles in medical journals are much better sources than advocacy videos created by “experts” with dubious medical credentials.
At the same time, teachers shouldn’t let their own enthusiasm for vaccines turn into undue advocacy. Parents, not teachers, are the primary caregivers for their children and parental rights must be respected. It’s not the role of teachers to undermine the relationship between parents and their children. Parents entrust schools with their children during the school day and teachers must never abuse this trust or exploit it for their own ideological purposes.
This doesn’t mean that teachers should shy away from discussing this topic in their classrooms. Far from it. Rather, teachers must find the proper balance between providing accurate and reliable information about vaccines and allowing students, with the help of their parents, to come to their own decisions. While teachers shouldn’t ignore blatant misinformation, they mustn’t disrespect students or their parents. Certainly, teachers shouldn’t make students feel stupid.
One of the most important things teachers can do is to encourage students to talk about these issues with their parents. Whatever is discussed in classes should also be freely shared at home with parents. Openness and transparency between the school and the home goes a long way to building trust between teachers, students, and parents.
In addition, teachers need to refrain from embarrassing students who hold different opinions about the effects of vaccines. There’s a power imbalance between teachers and students, and teachers must be careful not to exploit it.
During this global pandemic, teachers should educate students about vaccines without unduly pressuring them to get vaccinated. This is a tricky balance, but teachers are up to the job. It’s important they get it right.
Michael Zwaagstra is a public high school teacher, a senior fellow with the Frontier Centre for Public Policy, and author of A Sage on the Stage: Common Sense Reflections on Teaching and Learning.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A man crosses the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) logo in the lobby of CIA Headquarters in Langley, Va., on Aug. 14, 2008. (Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images)
Shouldn’t America’s Spies Already Know Where COVID Came From?
Commentary
President Biden has given the U.S. intelligence community 90 days to figure out where COVID-19 came from.
Really?
American taxpayers just might wonder what they are getting for their $80 billion that funds the nation’s mammoth intelligence bureaucracy each year.
Shouldn’t the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)—the crème-de-la-crème of the intelligence community—already know about COVID?
In fact, shouldn’t they have known in late 2019 when the virus first appeared?
That is the CIA’s job after all—to know what’s going on in China and what Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party leadership are thinking and doing.
Hopefully, the CIA prioritizes China over, say, Slovenia.
Perhaps the CIA is just not very good at spying. And that is its principal duty: to obtain secrets by persuading foreigners to betray their countries or organizations for America’s interests.
Yes, this isn’t always easy. Nonetheless, it is what the CIA is supposed to do.
One does hear it argued—or better said, used as an excuse—that China is a “hard target.” And it is. China’s Ministry of State Security’s successes in rolling up CIA Chinese agent networks in recent times have been colossal intelligence disasters.
But being “hard” is a poor excuse. The intelligence targets most important to the United States are usually the most difficult. Imagine an airline pilot suggesting he should not be expected to land in a 30-knot crosswind because it would be hard.
Some nationalities are recruitable by the dozen in an afternoon, with a decent lunch and a little money. Russians and Islamic terrorists? Not so easy. Chinese? Not easy but not impossible.
Operating inside China is tough. But Chinese do travel overseas. And in dictatorships, like China, one’s position and even life can be precarious. Indeed, many Chinese of means and power are looking for overseas bolt-holes and places to stash their wealth and their relatives.
A person walks past the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco, Calif., on July 23, 2020. (Philip Pacheco/AFP via Getty Images)
These are cracks for CIA officers to exploit. It takes patience and effort.
But if promotion in the agency’s Directorate of Operations (which does most of the recruiting) is still based on “scalps”—regardless of whose head they come off—guess which targets get the attention? The easy ones.
And a little … ahem … deception to jump-start a career isn’t unheard of. One recipient of the agency’s top case officer award offered sage advice—with a straight face—that “You should go to an agent meeting with the intelligence already written,” and “It’s okay to write what an agent would have said.”
In other words: make it up … or in plainer English … lie.
As for fake recruitments, there probably isn’t a current or former CIA case officer alive who can’t rattle off a few examples.
Another problem with the China target (and other hard ones) is language. Learning Chinese takes time and that’s “dead time” the way promotion boards look at it. Best to head off to Africa and rack up some easy scalps.
Adding to the spying challenge, after 9/11 the CIA got into paramilitary operations big time. That’s a lot easier than pursuing and convincing “hard targets” to give you information.
Paramilitary work is also a lot of fun—like being in the military, but without most of the rules and you only do the fun stuff. No parades, no inspections, no PowerPoint torture and no seminars on sexual harassment and ‘woke’ re-education sessions.
Paramilitary operations have their uses, but they are not the CIA’s core purpose.
And one suspects the CIA relies excessively on “liaison services.” That’s dumbing things down. Instead of gathering intelligence on your own, you let the local intelligence services do the work for you.
It’s easier and eliminates the risk of being caught spying in another country (a risk that’s part of the intelligence game and always has been).
But you’re also a supplicant, dependent on foreign intelligence services. You’ll only know what they know—and of that, only what they tell you. And their interests are not always America’s interests.
One also marvels that nobody seems to notice or at least do much about all this.
Congress has oversight responsibility for the CIA. But as one CIA officer commented a while back, there is little to worry about from Capitol Hill: “Tell them some stories, give them a little show-and-tell, and they think they’re dealing with Mr. Bond himself.”
And it didn’t help when the then-director of national intelligence, Lieutenant General James Clapper, who became one of President Trump’s fiercest critics, in 2013 delivered what he later called a “clearly erroneous” if “least untruthful” answer to the Senate Intelligence Committee when testifying about government surveillance of U.S. citizens.
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper (L) and CIA Director John Brennan chat before testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Feb. 9, 2016. (Molly Riley/AFP/Getty Images)
This doesn’t exactly make a citizen brim with confidence in the intelligence community’s ruling class or in the U.S. Air Force’s three-star generals.
And it’s not just Clapper. Take one former CIA director and another former acting director on whose watches the CIA missed the rise of ISIS, for starters. Both were analysts—and sub-par ones at that. They were not case officers out in the field trying to recruit and obtain intelligence. Of course, there is no shortage of sub-par case officers either.
So how did they get to the top?
It’s depressing, but both were creatures of a CIA culture—most prevalent at, but not confined to, headquarters—where sycophancy, laissez-faire backstabbing and smoke-and-mirrors achievement are better for one’s career than producing intelligence on America’s most dangerous enemies.
As for the current Director of National Intelligence—now running the whole show—she’s a former CIA employee but with a stunning lack of experience, and zero on the ‘operational end.’
Not surprisingly the good officers, of whom there are still some and who could get things on track, go to great lengths to avoid headquarters assignments. There’s also no possible way they would be selected to the top positions and threaten what is a juicy employment racket.
In fairness, the CIA presumably is doing some useful work collecting information “the old fashioned way.” And the agency rightly doesn’t publicize it.
But when the question of where the coronavirus came from and what the Chinese leadership knew is still a mystery to the CIA (and the rest of the intelligence community)—one marvels at such majestic incompetence.
And none of the GS-15’s, SES’s, and SIS’s running the show seem the least bit embarrassed that when their country most needed them, they failed.
One doubts U.S. intelligence can be fixed without a flamethrower.
Grant Newsham is a retired U.S. Marine officer and a former U.S. diplomat and business executive who lived and worked for many years in the Asia/Pacific region. He served as a reserve head of intelligence for Marine Forces Pacific, and was the U.S. Marine attaché, U.S. Embassy Tokyo on two occasions. He is a senior fellow with the Center for Security Policy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Voters line up to cast their ballots in Fort Worth, Texas. in a file photo. (Photo by Ron Jenkins/Getty Images)
Texas Senate Passes Major GOP-Backed Election Reform Bill
The Texas state Senate passed a sweeping election overhaul bill on May 30 that has been criticized by high-profile Democrats over provisions that they say expands restrictions and penalties.
The legislation was approved largely along party lines after an overnight debate stretched into the morning of May 30, according to local media. The House had a deadline of midnight on May 30 to approve the proposal.
The measure would grant more power to poll watchers by giving them more access inside polling areas, while creating new penalties against election officials who restrict poll watchers’ movements. The proposal would also allow a judge to void the outcome of an election if the number of fraudulent votes could change the result.
Officials who send mail-in ballots to people who didn’t request them may also face criminal penalties, according to the bill.
Previously, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, signaled that he supports such election measures.
According to a tweet from the Texas District and County Attorneys Association, at least 16 new or enhanced crimes related to elections were included in the bill.
State Sen. Bryan Hughes, a Republican, said that the measure would keep Texas’s elections fair and honest.
“We want elections to be secure and accessible,” said Hughes, who authored the bill, according to the Dallas Morning News.
During the Senate session, Hughes said his bill has “common sense” mandates against fraud, the Texas Tribune reported.
“The provisions of this bill apply equally across the board,” Hughes said in response to allegations from Democrats that the bill would restrict minority voters.
Over the weekend, President Joe Biden weighed in on the bill, alleging in a statement that it “attacks the sacred right to vote.”
“It’s part of an assault on democracy that we’ve seen far too often this year—and often disproportionately targeting black and brown Americans,” Biden said.
The president wasn’t the only high-profile Democrat to weigh in on the Texas bill.
“The Texas law is shameful and Republicans clearly, in Texas and throughout the country, want to make it harder to vote and easier to steal an election,” Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), a member of House Democrats’ leadership, told CBS News on May 30. “That’s the only way I can interpret the voter suppression epidemic that we see working its way from one state, Georgia, to Arizona to Texas and all across the country.”
Marc Elias, a lawyer who has filed a number of election-related lawsuits on behalf of Democrats, signaled that he will file a lawsuit in the coming days.
“States to watch for NEW voting rights litigation (in order of likelihood) 1. Texas,” he wrote on Twitter on May 30.
Elias also filed a lawsuit to challenge an election integrity bill that was signed into law in Florida several weeks ago.
In addition to Florida and Texas, a number of Republican-led states have pushed for or have passed laws meant to add new safeguards to elections, drawing considerable condemnation from Democrats, who have claimed Republicans are trying to rig voting in their favor.
In mid-May, Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, signed a bill that updated the eligibility requirements to remain on the state’s early voting list in a bid to make elections more secure.~The Commission We Really Need
Commentary
Senate Republicans refused to go along with the House and establish a commission to investigate the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, and more than 100 police officers injured. By a vote of 54 to 35, the bill to form the “bipartisan” commission failed. But who really believes that it would have been truly bipartisan? In Washington, virtually everything is partisan.
Wall Street Journal columnist Gerald Seib attempted to make the case for a commission, even while acknowledging that trials, investigations by journalists and other information about the incident will eventually be known. He seems to think a commission made up of politicians will find credibility with most Americans. Probably the opposite will be true.
How about a commission to examine the source of the anger that produced the attack? The sources aren’t conservative talk radio or cable TV. They are merely conduits for many Americans who are fed up with their government and want it to return to the boundaries established by the Founders.
While violence and destruction were not justified on Jan. 6, or at any other time, the riot might go a long way toward heading off future incidents if our leaders understood the depth of feeling held by those rioters who believe their country is being taken away from them without their consent.
We are told we must pay more taxes to a government that has misspent our money for years on programs that don’t work and to help politicians stay in office. We must live within our means, but government is spending us into unsustainable debt.
We must obey all laws or suffer civil or criminal penalties, yet we see on news channels (but not all, which is another issue) countless people breaking the law to illegally cross our southern border. The IRS estimates that only 50 percent to 75 percent of those here without authority pay federal, state, or local taxes. Who foots the remainder of the bill? If we crossed illegally into other countries, especially Mexico, we would surely wind up in a jail cell.
We watch as public schools teach critical race theory as part of what some consider historical revisionism and invite drag queens to middle-school Career Day.
The Pentagon demolished the Trump-era ban on transgender people in the military. They can now freely serve. I have yet to hear how this will promote unit cohesion, help us win wars and compete with the militaries of Russia and China, whose priorities are much different.
We spend record amounts of money on public education and yet American kids are behind Russia and China and many other countries in important subjects, such as math and science.
Notice there are no proposals for a commission to investigate Black Lives Matter, or the large amounts of dark money used by both parties flooding in to influence our elections. No, it is only people viewed as the “extreme right” who should be subject to investigations.
There are numerous quotes, even books, about nations that have crumbled under the weight of their own self-indulgence. None surpass the statement by our 16th president. Abraham Lincoln said: “From whence shall we expect the approach of danger? Shall some trans-Atlantic military giant step the earth and crush us at a blow? Never. All the armies of Europe and Asia … could not by force take a drink from the Ohio River or make a track on the Blue Ridge in the trial of a thousand years. No, if destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we will live forever or die by suicide.”
If a commission looking into what fueled the Jan. 6 riot is established, that quote would explain our suicidal tendencies. It might also explain the anger many feel.
John Calvin Thomas has been a syndicated columnist, author, and radio commentator for more than 35 years. His latest book is “America’s Expiration Date: The Fall of Empires and Superpowers and the Future of the United States.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A city view shows the French flag above the skyline of the French capital as the Eiffel Tower and roof tops are seen in Paris on March 30, 2016. (Benoit Tessier/Reuters)
France Tightens Restrictions on Travel From UK Due to Indian Variant
Travellers from the UK will have to provide “compelling reasons” to enter France from Monday as French authorities tighten restrictions to prevent the spread of the Indian variant of coronavirus.
Travel to France from the UK will only be permitted for EU nationals, French residents, or those travelling for essential reasons.
Those who are allowed to make the journey must take a pre-departure COVID-19 test and quarantine for seven days on arrival.
The UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office (FCDO) said the new French rules apply to all air, car, ferry, and train passengers.
France is currently listed as an “amber” destination by the UK government that advises against travel there, with British authorities requiring people to self-isolate for 10 days and take two COVID-19 tests on return.
Stricter rules for visitors from the UK were first raised by French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian last week amid concern over the Indian variant.
An explanation of the new rules on the website of the Consulate General of France in London said, “Given the development of the so-called Indian variant, health measures have been tightened for people travelling to France from the UK.”
It added that from Monday morning “compelling reasons will be required for foreign nationals outside the EU not resident in France to travel to France from the UK.”
The website said “a PCR or antigen test less than 48 hours old will be required from anyone travelling to France from the UK,” while on arrival “travellers are obliged to self-isolate for seven days.”
Infographic of global COVID-19 cases and deaths at the end of May 30, 2021. (PA Graphics)
The information added that “due to the low incidence of COVID in the UK, for the moment they will not be subject to systematic checks where they are staying.”
Travellers entering France from outside the European Union, including the UK, have to sign a sworn declaration that they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and that they are not aware of being in contact with someone with the disease in the 14 days before their journey.
As well as proof of the negative pre-departure COVID-19 test for those aged 11 and over, a sworn declaration to self-isolate on arrival in France for seven days must also be made and a second PCR test taken after the quarantine.
The consulate website said that people who had been vaccinated remain subject to the same rules, adding that people are “strongly advised” to keep international travel “to a minimum.”
France’s move follows Germany starting to require people arriving from the UK to go into quarantine for 14 days, again in response to the spread of the Indian variant.
By Tom Pilgrim~A woman wearing a protective face mask reading ''dictatorship'' protests against government restrictions, although the rally has been disallowed by a regional court, amid the CCP virus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Bremen, Germany, on Dec. 5, 2020. (Fabian Bimmer/Reuters)
German Judge Declares Mask Mandates Illegal and Harmful to Children
Commentary
As reported in The Epoch Times, the Oklahoma legislature recently passed a bill banning mask mandates in schools. In Germany, mask mandates in schools have also been under the microscope, with an extraordinary judgment given in April highlighting the issue.
On April 8, the Weimar District Court banned two schools in that district from enforcing mask mandates, social distancing requirements, and rapid COVID-19 testing on their students. The court also ordered the schools to no longer conduct distance learning.
The decision followed legal action by the mother of two students, aged 8 and 14, respectively, at one of the schools, who argued that such measures were causing physical, psychological, and pedagogical harm to her children, as well as constituting an infringement of her children and parental rights under German and international law.
The judge, Christian Dettmar, upheld this argument (pdf), noting that mask mandates and social distancing requirements for children weren’t only causing the harm mentioned above, but were in direct violation of Articles 2 and 6 of the German Constitution, which guarantee the rights to freedom of individual development, education, and parental assistance.
Members of the police stand guard as people protest against the German government measures to curb the spread of COVID-19, as the lower house of parliament discusses amendments to the Infection Protection Act, in Berlin, on April 21, 2021. (Christian Mang/Reuters)
Accordingly, the judge held that the anti-COVID measures deployed weren’t proportional to the threat posed. This was in accordance with proportionality principles enshrined in Articles 20 and 28 of the German Constitution.
The court also referred to an October 2020 WHO Bulletin which featured a study by renowned medical science expert John Ioannidis, who found the death rate for coronavirus to be 0.23 percent, the equivalent of a moderate influenza epidemic.
In examining expert medical; scientific, including biological; and psychological evidence, the judge found the use of masks and social distancing had no effect whatsoever on reducing infection, and cast serious doubt on the ability of asymptomatic persons—particularly children—to spread the virus. This was the first time evidence was presented to a German court regarding the scientific reasonableness and necessity of the prescribed anti-virus measures.
Dettmar found that the anti-virus measures posed a danger to the mental, physical, or psychological well-being of the children to such an extent that significant harm could be foreseen with a high degree of certainty. He wrote:
“The children are not only endangered in their mental, physical, and spiritual well-being by the obligation to wear face masks during school hours and to keep their distance from each other and from other persons, but, in addition, they are already being harmed. At the same time, this violates numerous rights of the children and their parents under the law, the constitution, and international conventions.
“This applies in particular to the right to free development of the personality and to physical integrity from Article 2 of the (German Constitution) as well as to the right from Article 6 of the (Constitution) to upbringing and care by the parents (also with regard to measures for preventive health care and ‘objects’ to be carried by children).”
The judge agreed with the experts’ assessment that masks weren’t useful for viral protection, that PCR tests couldn’t detect a disease-causing infection with necessary certainty, and that asymptomatic transmission played no detectable role epidemiologically with respect to coronavirus.
On the contrary, masks would have a negative impact on children’s health due to handling-related contamination. Testing in school classes would be unnecessary, harmful, and extremely problematic in terms of data protection.
In conclusion, he stated, “100,000 elementary school students would have to put up with all the side effects of wearing masks for a week in order to prevent just one infection per week. To call this result merely disproportionate would be a wholly inadequate description. Rather, it shows that the state legislature regulating this area has fallen into a factual disconnect that has reached historic proportions.”
Following this sensational decision, Dettmar had his house, office, and car searched by police, and mobile phone confiscated.
The Weimar Administrative Court—a separate court with no jurisdiction over the District Court—issued a statement in response to the ruling, describing Dettmar’s decision as unlawful—without giving reasons—and reiterated the importance of the mask mandate.
Do the actions of the police, court, and authorities suggest that the edifice of virus restrictions could be exposed as lacking proper epidemiological foundations?
Rocco Loiacono is a senior lecturer at Curtin University Law School in Perth, Australia, and is a translator from Italian to English. His work on translation, linguistics, and law has been widely published in peer-reviewed journals. This article was compiled in collaboration with Eva Wiesmann.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A member of the Joint Services Honor Guard is reflected on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial prior to a wreath laying ceremony to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War, in Washington on March 29, 2016. In 2012, President Barack Obama signed a presidential proclamation declaring March 29 Vietnam Veterans Day. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
Memorial Day Regret: I Did Not Serve
Commentary
Like many of my generation—and this is not an excuse, merely, shall we say, a “chronological” notation—I never served in the military.
Indeed, thinking myself morally and politically opposed to the Vietnam War, I did what I could to avoid the draft.
1964, the year of my college graduation—I was only twenty that June, or was it still May—it never entered my head I could possibly volunteer for the Army, Navy, Marines or Air Force. I was going to graduate school, my trusted 2-S exemption in hand.
My only sacrifice, if you can call it that, was that I had to forego a dream I now see as more than a little pretentious, to go to film school in France. My draft board insisted on domestic study so off I went to the Yale School of Drama for a somewhat dubious MFA in playwriting and dramatic literature.
This left me plenty of time to join the ranks on the Washington Mall shouting “Hey, hey, LBJ, how many kids did you kill today?” and “Ho, Ho, Ho Chi Minh, Viet Cong is going to win!”, not to mention the ever-popular “Off the pig!”
I could never get myself to say the latter, aware that we were largely privileged middle class (and sometimes more) college kids attacking working class police. The hypocrisy was pretty clear even then. The joke went “What’re you gonna do if someone breaks into your house? Call a hippie?” (That fifty-year old joke still pertains.)
I remember having many arguments about the war, even screaming ones, with my father who served as a flight surgeon in WWII, although not “in theater” as they say, but domestically.
A couple of years later, when I got married young, my exemption continued. On graduation from Yale, I still could avoid the draft. I didn’t even have to burn my card. Or fake an asthma attack. Or bother to chant “Hell, no, we won’t go!” although I probably did on occasion.
I’m not here to debate the Vietnam War. That’s already been done ad infinitum. And my own political views have long since shifted.
What I want to point out is that many of us standing around our barbecues today, flipping ribs and downing a Sam Adams, do so in a bit of bad faith. That includes me.
In many of us—again that includes me—is the lingering thought that the reasons we did not serve were not entirely idealistic.
A touch of cowardice might have been buried somewhere not too far below the surface.
Maybe more than a touch.
It was so convenient to be against the war. It got you out of a lot of things.
But I remember being startled when one of my college classmates actually died over there not more than a month after we graduated.
I didn’t know him well. He was in a couple of my classes as a freshman and then we went our separate ways. And he was in ROTC, something I obviously abjured.
There were others shortly thereafter. I read about them in the Dartmouth Alumni Magazine. Like the first one, they were usually students I didn’t know well, not from my set. They didn’t work on the college paper, as I did, or the literary magazine. They didn’t act in undergraduate productions of Shakespeare or Tennessee Williams.
Now, for the most part, that generation that did not serve has taken over. It’s been a long time since we have had a president who was in the military.
Bill Clinton was typical of the type who did not serve, a protestor elevated to commander-in-chief. Does he have any twinges on Memorial Day? I wonder.
What about Donald Trump, who is so pro-military but did not serve? What does he feel about his lack of service now? It would be interesting to hear. I wouldn’t be surprised if he shares my uneasiness.
It’s rather obvious Joe Biden, who of course never served as well, cares about our fallen in only a perfunctory “political” manner, laying a wreath and so forth. (At least he does that—unlike his clueless Vice-President.)
Instead, this Memorial Day our president is concentrating on what happened in Tulsa 100 years ago, issuing an extremely lengthy, detailed presidential proclamation on the subject that you can be certain Biden—the plagiarist who barely made it through law school—did not write himself.
It seems Memorial Day is just another opportunity for him to stoke the already-raging flames of racial enmity in our country. Oh, well…
For me, and I assume for others of my generation, it is a time for reflection.
But it won’t stop me—and shouldn’t stop us— from celebrating our great country. And enjoying ourselves.
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now, editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A security person moves journalists away from the Wuhan Institute of Virology after a World Health Organization team arrived for a field visit in Wuhan in China's Hubei Province, on Feb. 3, 2021. (Ng Han Guan/AP Photo)
7 Facts About Virus Research in Wuhan: China Should End Gain-of-Function Research
Commentary
On May 24, the Wall Street Journal published seven key sets of facts that demonstrate that Wuhan virologists, who claim to have been conducting analyses that would help develop vaccines for a then-non-existent pandemic, might have taken undue risk through gain-of-function research or lax lab safety standards, that sparked the COVID-19 pandemic that killed almost 3.5 million people worldwide, and counting. At the very least, the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) is culpable for omitting crucial data that would help the world determine the virus’s origins.
First, six workers from a bat-infested copper mine in the Mojiang region of China, got sick in 2012, and three died. All the sick miners had similar symptoms. A CT scan “revealed severe pneumonia, with the same lung markings now seen in many COVID-19 patients,” according to evidence seen by the Journal. Four miners tested positive for SARS antibodies.
The P4 laboratory (L) at the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan, China, on April 17, 2020. (Hector Retamal/AFP via Getty Images)
Second, WIV scientists suspected a bat-borne coronavirus, and collected samples from 276 bats of at least six different species, from the area. “They extracted genetic material from the samples and sequenced fragments,” according to the Journal. “Half of the samples tested positive for coronaviruses,” including a SARS-type one. “Critically, all six bat species showed evidence of coronavirus co-infection, the researchers found. In other words, the virus could easily exchange genetic material with similar ones to create a new coronavirus—an environment ripe for the creation of new viruses that could potentially infect humans.”
Dr. Shi Zhengli, the top WIV bat coronavirus expert, led that research. Dr. Shi claims to have retested the miners, thereby rejecting the hypothesis that they were infected with SARS-CoV-2.
Third, the WIV once had a public database of 22,000 samples and virus sequences. 15,000 of these were from bats. In September 2019, WIV took the database offline, ostensibly due to over 3,000 cyberattacks.
Fourth, Dr. Shi recently said her team found eight additional SARS-like coronaviruses at the mine. “Many scientists question why the WIV didn’t announce the existence of those viruses earlier, as well as their connection to the mine, and why they waited so long to allow scientists to examine their sequences,” according to the Journal. “Some have noted that Dr. Shi has repeatedly asserted that the Mojiang miners had a suspected fungal infection, not a virus, contradicting research papers at the time and Dr. Shi’s update in [the journal] Nature, which said the miners were thought to have a virus.” Dr. Shi was not fired, so WIV is responsible for her apparent dissimulation.
Fifth, WIV conducted gain-of-function research. Such research makes viruses more lethal and infectious, under highly-controlled circumstances, ostensibly in order to develop vaccines. Some scientists, according to the Journal, say that research papers reveal that WIV employees “were combining some bat coronaviruses they had cultured with genetic material from others.”
“Dr. Shi has publicly described doing experiments, including in 2018 and 2019, to see if various bat coronaviruses could use a spike protein on their surfaces to bind to an enzyme in human cells known as ACE2,” according to the Journal. “That is how both the SARS virus and SARS-CoV-2 infect humans.” The experiments required the combination of a bat coronavirus and the spike protein of another, then the infection of genetically-engineered mice containing human ACE2, according to Dr. Shi.
Chinese virologist Shi Zhengli is seen inside the P4 laboratory in Wuhan, capital of China’s Hubei Province, on Feb. 23, 2017. (Johannes Eisele/AFP via Getty Images)
According to the Journal, “Ralph Baric, a microbiologist at the University of North Carolina … worked with the WIV on a study to create an artificial coronavirus that infected human cells in the lab.” Dr. Baric has some explaining to do. Scientists should not collaborate with totalitarian regimes on dangerous biological research.
Sixth, three WIV researchers got sick in November 2019 and were hospitalized with symptoms consistent with both seasonal flu and COVID-19. This information, obtained by the Journal, was likely from Australia’s intelligence service.
Seventh, Chinese authorities are obstructing researchers and reporters from accessing the copper mine and environs (although one heroic Journal reporter recently managed to make it there by mountain bike to take a photo). Officials detained him for five hours and deleted the photograph.
Scientists are looking at these facts, raising concerns, and demanding more data.
Ian Lipkin, infectious-disease specialist at Columbia University, said WIV experiments on coronaviruses in labs might have been at a lower biosafety level than is required in the United States.
Dr. Ralph Baric believes that the genetic structure of SARS-CoV-2 indicates a wild origin and natural evolution to infect humans, but that a “rigorous investigation would have reviewed the biosafety level under which bat coronavirus research was conducted at WIV … detailed information on the training procedures with records, the safety procedures with records and strategies that were in place to prevent inadvertent or accidental escape,” according to the Journal.
Virologist Bernard Roizman at the University of Chicago told the Journal, “I’m convinced that what happened is that the virus was brought to the lab, they started to work with it … and some sloppy individual brought it out. They can’t admit they did something so stupid.”
Clearly, the gathering and public revelation of more evidence is needed to address these concerns. The WHO-led team tasked with investigating the virus’s origin, only spent three hours at WIV. It was unable to do antibody tests on animals and people near the copper mine. Even WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus criticized his own team’s investigation as inadequate.
China’s gain-of-function research should be a concern to all. According to the Journal, “Critics say the risk of harmful, genetically enhanced viruses leaking from the lab is too great” to justify any benefit from gain-of-function research that assists in developing vaccines for future potential pandemics.
In 2014, the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) stopped funding gain-of-function research, only to reinstate it in 2017 though under the greater strictures of an expert review panel. China’s restrictions on gain-of-function are less rigorous, and its science is often substandard. It can and is hijacked by an unethical Chinese military under Xi Jinping’s control.
In sum, the WIV lab researchers did not disclose their collaboration with the Chinese military, released discrepant data that appears to evidence dissimulation, and are not being transparent. They failed to provide full access to evidence that could explain the origin of the virus.
Most scientists do believe the lab-leak hypothesis is unlikely relative to natural human-to-animal spillover, which happens much more frequently.
But until China improves its scientific and political ethics, it has no business conducting gain-of-function research. Western scientists should immediately stop putting such powerful technologies into the hands of potentially sloppy and military-linked scientists in China, when the stakes are so high. Continuing to conduct collaborative scientific research with them, given what we know today, is an unjustified risk for the world.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~EU Executive Urges Reopening in Summer to Vaccinated Tourists
BRUSSELS—The European Commission proposed on Monday that vaccinated people should be exempt from testing or quarantines when traveling from one EU country to another, and urged a gradual easing of travel measures as COVID-19 inoculations accelerate.
The EU reached a deal earlier this month on COVID-19 certificates that will show, via a QR code, whether a person is vaccinated, immune based on recovery from infection, or has had a recent negative test. The scheme should be ready by July 1.
The European Union executive, which is seeking to end a current patchwork of travel measures across the bloc, said on Monday that testing or quarantines should not apply to people who have been fully vaccinated 14 days prior to travel.
About half of EU adults have received a first vaccine dose.
People who have recovered from a COVID-19 infection should be exempt from restrictions for 180 days. The Commission also proposed that more reliable, but more expensive PCR tests should be valid for 72 hours and rapid antigen tests for 48 hours.
Children, who are not yet in line for vaccinations, should not have to undergo a quarantine if travelling with parents who are exempt. Those aged six and older can be subject to tests.
The Commission has also included an “emergency brake” to reimpose measures for travelers from areas where there is a surge of infections or many cases of a particular virus variant.
Travel from “dark red” areas, with more than 150 COVID-19 cases per 100,000 people over 14 days, would be “strongly discouraged,” while for green areas, with fewer than 25 cases, no restrictions would apply, the Commission proposal said.
Only Malta is currently green.
The proposal, which is being put to EU member states, is similar to that already agreed for travel from outside the bloc for vaccinated travelers and those coming from “safe” countries, although tests can still apply.
By Philip Blenkinsop~Spanish Civil Guard policemen stand guard outside China's ICBC bank offices in Madrid, Spain, on Feb. 17, 2016. Spanish police searched offices of China's ICBC bank in downtown Madrid and arrested six people as part of a money laundering and tax fraud probe. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco)
China’s $70 Trillion Up for Grabs: A Risk to Democracy
Commentary
Western banks are hungry for access to China’s household investable assets, which will exceed $70 trillion by 2030, according to Goldman Sachs. China’s households will reportedly allocate more than half that amount to mutual funds, securities, and wealth management products. In 2020 alone, China’s broader wealth market amounted to $18.9 trillion. According to China Everbright Bank and the Boston Consulting Group, that figure increased by as much as 10 percent from 2019.
As China claims to liberalize its financial system, western banks are rushing to cash in on China’s trillions in consumer savings. On May 25, the Financial Times reported that Goldman Sachs won “initial approval” from China’s regulatory authorities for a joint venture (JV) with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) to conduct wealth management. ICBC, one of China’s largest banks, will hold 49 percent of the venture, with Goldman Sachs Asset Management holding a 51 percent “controlling” share.
An employee counts money at a branch of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC) in Huaibei, China on July 26, 2015. (ChinaFotoPress/Getty Images)
The word “controlling” is in quotes because ICBC is state-owned, and the success of Goldman’s 51 percent of the venture will continue to be dependent upon Beijing’s approval. If the venture falls out of favor, for whatever reason, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) can through regulations, taxation, or control of the local banking network, make it impossible to operate profitably.
The CCP often pressures businesses, even foreign-owned public businesses, to include Chinese nationals on their boards of directors, and the CCP had cells within about 70 percent of China’s 1.86 million private businesses in 2017. That figure was “destined to grow” according to The Diplomat.
“Even if Chinese Company Law regulates the establishment of Party units in foreign invested enterprises (both JVs and fully owned) without requiring governance roles for their members, recent trends in officials’ attitude, which are oriented toward the demand for more power, indicate accelerating interference,” according to The Diplomat. “That suggests that these positions are not merely symbolic, but rather an eventual source of political pressure around the boardroom.”
The CCP has leverage over international business because it controls their access to China’s massive market. The Financial Times article yesterday quoted a Goldman head who sees China’s market as “one of the world’s largest, fastest-growing, wealth management opportunities.”
So, Goldman will be incentivized to comply with CCP demands. There is no guarantee that the bank will not be responsive to a CCP cell within its own venture in China, for example. That could include anything from pressure to pay higher taxes within China, to pressure for political favors delivered in the United States. The CCP seeks to lower tariffs on China’s goods in the United States, and wants lighter export controls on sensitive technologies that Beijing seeks to acquire. Goldman is optimally positioned for such pressure, as many of its alumni become Treasury Department officials in Washington, and Treasury has extensive input into tariff and export control decisions. Treasury is also known as being consistently soft on China, including, according to one source, on the issue of the Uyghur genocide.
Steve Mnuchin, when he was Secretary of the Treasury for President Trump, was known to be one of the softest-on-China of Trump’s cabinet. Mnuchin and his father were both Goldman alums. Gary Cohn, a Goldman alum, served as National Economic Council head under Trump.
Other former Treasury Secretaries (and their years of service) with financial links to Goldman include Henry Fowler (1965-1968), Robert Rubin (1995-1999), Larry Summers (1999-2001), and Hank Paulson (2006-2009). When Hillary Clinton completed her stint as Secretary of State, she reportedly accepted $675,000 in speaking fees from Goldman for just three engagements in 2013. Was it a payoff, was she really worth that much, or was it a means to influence future secretaries of state by huge payouts to former secretaries of state?
Pedestrians pass the New York Stock Exchange, in New York, on Jan. 27, 2021. (John Minchillo/AP Photo)
China is positioning other big banks in a manner that could incentivize pro-Beijing political pressure. This month, BlackRock received permission for a joint venture with China Construction Bank and Singapore’s Temasek to begin wealth management. BlackRock is the world’s biggest asset manager, with approximately $9 trillion in assets under management (AUM). France’s Amundi asset manager ($1.8 trillion AUM) was the first foreign company to win approval for a majority foreign-owned wealth management business. It partnered with the Bank of China last year to launch the venture. Also in 2020, JPMorgan Asset Management unveiled plans for majority ownership in its mutual fund through buying out its JV partner.
While western governments have long pressed for “liberalization” of China’s financial services sector, it is arguably impossible to truly liberalize a country in which a communist government has total control of the economy and there is no genuine rule of law. International investing in dictatorships almost always includes an ongoing political transaction, rather than simple investment in actual assets that can be easily sold, and the profits repatriated.
Investment and dependence of the world’s biggest banks on China will give the totalitarian country increased political influence in the banks’ home countries. China’s near-total control of its own economy means that it can turn up and down the profits of these companies at will. If they show friendship or even loyalty to the CCP, they should expect subtle advantages that could lead to much higher profits. If they displease the CCP, they should expect disadvantages that could become as extreme as having their employees arrested by the regime.
As long as our banks are operating in China, they should be firewalled more thoroughly from our democratic political systems. Not doing so leaves an avenue for Beijing’s increasing economic influence, which in democracies, translates into political clout. This includes pre- and post-government positions and revenues from banks like Goldman Sachs. Democracy is by design porous to political influence from the business community. The more the business community becomes dependent on China for its profits, the more democracy will need protection against business-mediated CCP influence.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, on Capitol Hill in Washington on May 11, 2021. (Greg Nash/Pool/Getty Images)
Fauci and the Media Have Serious Blood on Their Hands Over COVID
Commentary
Donald Trump did many good things as president, but he didn’t always choose the best people to work with or for him. Take Omarosa and “The Mooch” for example.
If he wins a second term, he would be well-advised to bear in mind the old expression: “Flattery will get you nowhere.”
But I don’t blame Trump for the man who was by far the worst government functionary during his administration and right up there among the worst in American history: Dr. Anthony Fauci.
Treated by the media like some combination of Jesus, Moses, and Hippocrates, this overpaid lifetime bureaucrat was elevated to the level of soothsayer, with every word from his mouth treated as if it were “settled science,” even though that concept could be seen as an oxymoron by anyone with a 7th-grade education. He also contradicted himself so many times that it would take an abacus, appropriately, to keep count.
Meanwhile, the same media excoriated Donald Trump for even suggesting that the cheap and readily available hydroxychloroquine might be useful in curing the disease long ago dubbed here at The Epoch Times, with more corroboration daily, the “CCP virus.” (I can say congratulations to The Epoch Times—you were one of the few places to come to for real information—because I had nothing to do with this.)
Indeed, what has been called Trump Derangement Syndrome now seems to be too weak a term, considering the degree it dominated even medical science itself during a pandemic. We need something stronger. “Paranoid Trumpophrenia,” perhaps.
Fauci became the spokesperson for those Trumpophrenics, seemingly adjusting his opinions according to their needs. Anyone who disagreed with His Majesty, no matter his or her bona fides, was ridiculed in the press and social media.
Facebook, that anti-democratic institution that pervades our lives to a frightening extent, wouldn’t even publish routine questioning of the provenance of the disease until just now. It had to have come from a wet market, in the original view of Mark Zuckerberg, not a Chinese government laboratory. Fauci didn’t contradict him.
The media, along with Fauci’s help, was so successful in its propaganda that they cowed the two most important medical journals in the English language—The Journal of the American Academy of Medicine and the British Lancet—into claiming that the commonly used hydroxy was actually dangerous.
These esteemed journals eventually—and sheepishly—walked this back when actual evidence appeared and they were forced to agree that hydroxy, administered early, could be helpful in treating the virus. Shame on them.
The upshot of this prevarication that affected a large number of American and foreign medical institutions was that many died who could have been saved with early treatment. We’ll never know how many, but it’s likely a substantial number.
The media were, in essence, something they’ve always accused others of being—super spreaders.
So was Fauci.
Together, they have blood on their hands.
Of course, something was being hidden in all this—something that was readily apparent more than a year ago to anyone paying the slightest bit of attention—and is now coming to light only after a Wall Street Journal article has told us that three employees of the Wuhan virology lab had COVID-like symptoms in November 2019.
That something was the role played by Communist China in obfuscating the source of the pandemic. That role, it’s increasingly likely, involved so-called “gain of function” research, which enables deadly viruses to become more communicable to humans, at the Wuhan lab.
Fauci had some role in whatever occurred at the Wuhan lab, which should be fully investigated and exposed. Whether it will be is another question.
Despite a superficially unified Senate asking for the intelligence from our agencies, it’s not yet clear whether it will ever be revealed to the necessary extent.
Something quite nefarious militates against such investigative work that few admit in public. As uncomfortable as it is to say, a powerful and significant percentage of our governmental and business elites already assume—consciously or unconsciously—that communist China will win its competition with the West and have already positioned themselves to cash in.
In a sense, they want the communist oligarchs to win, since it’s more lucrative for both groups to be working together. Have you ever wondered why Zuckerberg was so reluctant to question the source of the pandemic on Facebook? This should tell you.
Globalism isn’t really globalism, but hidden China-ism.
This is a form of traitorousness unseen in history—certainly our history—and accounts for much of the behavior of those elites.
This is what Joe Biden was telling us spontaneously and candidly when he publicly stated China wasn’t our enemy, only months or weeks before the constraints of a political campaign forced him to take it back.
It’s what he truly believes. You don’t have to have access to Hunter’s laptop to know that (although the evidence would be stunningly obvious and copious).
Increasingly, we live in a world that pits the people against large portions of the political class and the corporate media.
Fauci was just a leading factor.
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Brooklyn hosts the oldest Memorial Day Parade in the US, the Kings County Memorial Day Parade has been running for 147 years. (Sarah Le/Epoch Times)
A Vietnam Memorial: Remembering Heroes and Villains From an Unpopular Conflict
Commentary
Memorial Day ceremonies tend to feature World War II, with good reason. The Allies’ triumph over the Axis powers gave people cause to celebrate. Presidents who served in World War II include Dwight Eisenhower, commander of Allied forces, and George H.W. Bush, a pilot with Torpedo Squadron 51 (VT-51), shot down by the Japanese on his 58th mission, then rescued by a U.S. submarine.
George H.W. Bush was the last American president with actual combat experience in World War II, and few veterans of that conflict remain. The time has come to focus on a conflict less popular—the war in Vietnam.
Many questioned whether the United States should have entered the conflict, and most Americans, fair to say, agreed that Washington badly mismanaged the war. Even so, many American soldiers fought heroically. Consider, for example, Charles “Chuck” Mawhinney.
Paratroopers assigned to 173rd Airborne Brigade conduct sniper training during Exercise Rock Sokol at Pocek Range in Postonja, Slovenia, May 10, 2018. Exercise Rock Sokol is a bilateral training exercise between the U.S. Army 173rd Airborne Brigade and the Slovenian Armed Forces, focused on small-unit tactics and building on previous lessons learned, forging the bonds and enhancing readiness between allied forces. (U.S. Army photo by Graigg Faggionato)
The Marine Corps sniper, born in 1949, deployed to Vietnam after the Tet Offensive and operated near Da Nang. When a Viet Cong force was marching toward the American base, Mawhinney volunteered to cover a shallow spot on a river where the enemy was expected to cross. With his Remington M40 sniper rifle, Mawhinney took down 16 Viet Cong, all within 30 seconds, at night and in bad weather. This feat was not a matter of chance.
Mawhinney, who’s father was a Marine Corps sniper in World War II, told American Rifleman in 2012, “I started shooting at a very young age, and he taught me to shoot like the Marines taught him, so there wasn’t any big transition from hunting in Oregon to becoming a sniper.” Mawhinney joined the Marines right out of high school, graduated from Scout Sniper School at Camp Pendleton in April of 1968, and then it was on to Vietnam.
There Mawhinney recorded 103 confirmed kills with another 216 “probables.” Few people knew until fellow Marine sniper Joseph Ward mentioned Mawhinney in “Dear Mom: A Sniper’s Vietnam,” published in 1991. Mawhinney has never received the recognition he deserves, and neither has Col. Fred Cherry, the African American U.S. Air Force pilot who spent seven years as a prisoner of war (POW) in North Vietnam.
Born in Suffolk, Virginia, Cherry experienced racial prejudice and segregation first hand but did not let it hold him back from achievement. He graduated from Virginia Union University in 1951 and joined the U.S. Air Force. A skilled pilot, Cherry would soon be flying combat missions over Stalinist North Korea.
In 1965 Cherry was flying an F-105 fighter-bomber over North Vietnam when he took anti-aircraft fire and his plane exploded. He bailed out, suffered major injuries, and fell captive to the enemy. The North Vietnamese thought they had a real find and threw Cherry in a cell with Porter Halyburton, a white pilot from North Carolina. The communists hoped to stoke racial friction that would break down Cherry and make him a propaganda tool. The captors’ plan backfired.
Halyburton duly attended to Cherry’s wounds and watched over his black countryman around the clock. Cherry credited the white southerner with saving his life, and Halyburton thought Cherry had done the same for him. The two became lifelong friends, but in captivity both faced a hard road. The communists slapped Cherry into solitary confinement for 702 days and the pilot endured punishment and torture for 93 straight days. By the time of his release in 1973, Cherry had racked up 2,671 days in captivity.
Vietnam War veteran Robert Rosebrock stands in front of the Veteran Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System campus to protest uses of the campus he says does not serve veterans, on June 7, 2020. (Hau Nguyen/The Epoch Times)
The story of Cherry and Halyburton emerged in Leading With Honor: Leadership Lessons from the Hanoi Hilton (2014) by American pilot Lee Ellis. He had been shot down in November 1967 on a mission to destroy the guns that protected the Quang Khe ferry that supplied the Ho Chi Minh Trail. In the Hoa Lao prison, which POWs dubbed the Hanoi Hilton, Ellis learned firsthand about North Vietnam and its systematic torture of American POWs. As the author notes, the North Vietnamese tortured more than 95 percent of American POWs including eight tortured to death. But the torture wasn’t all physical.
The captors piped in propaganda and, Ellis explains, “the afternoon broadcasts were especially disheartening because they featured Americans spouting words that could have been written for them in Moscow and Hanoi.” New Left icon Tom Hayden “was a regular speaker,” later joined by his wife, “film star Jane Fonda.”
Ellis charitably calls them “anti-war activists” but they were nothing of the kind. Many Americans were against the conflict but Hayden and Fonda wanted the North Vietnamese to win and the country unified under communism.
Cherry passed away in February, 2016, during Black History Month, but President Barack Obama did not rush to honor him. Chuck Mawhinney is still around, and his lack of official recognition should come as no surprise.
Unlike World War II, Vietnam veterans were vilified beyond measure and did not get a memorial until the 1980s. The more than 58,000 names on that wall include 40,934 Americans killed in action. The people in power today are not worthy of carrying their shoes.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A nurse draws a dose from a vial of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine in Thornton, Colo., on March 6, 2021. (Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images)
Florida Concert Charging $18 for Vaccinated, $1,000 for Unvaccinated
People who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to get into an upcoming concert in Florida for $18 in advance or $20 at the show.
People who aren’t fully vaccinated are being charged $999.99.
The concert, featuring punk bands, is slated to take place on June 26 at VFW Post 39 in St. Petersburg.
Concertgoers who show proof of vaccination and who received their final shot on or before June 12 will be eligible for what’s being termed discounted tickets.
Others will have to pay the higher price.
“If you do not care about the discount, tickets are available for a flat rate of $999.99,” the concert’s website states.
“Everyone is eligible for a vaccine now, so if you need one, you can find out where to get one here: https://www.vaccines.gov/”
Paul Williams, a promoter, said he came up with the idea.
“We’re just trying to do a show safely. And they should go out and get vaccinated to protect themselves and their families and their community,” Williams told WFTS.
Ray Carlisle, singer and guitar player for one of the bands, Teenage Bottlerocket, supports the treatment.
“We’re all vaccinated. We encourage everyone to get vaccinated so we can see you in the pit,” he said.
Not everyone does.
“I think it’s terrible because not everyone can get the vaccine. I can’t because I had COVID too recently,” Brittney Wigen, a punk rock fan who wanted to go to the concert, told WFTS, adding that she has antibodies against the CCP virus.
Williams said he’s not a doctor so he can’t accept a doctor’s note from Wigen that would support her stance.
Carlisle had a suggestion for people who haven’t gotten a vaccine.
“Perhaps put together a GoFundMe and all the other weirdo anti-vaxxers can help support you going to Teenage Bottlerocket for a thousand dollars. That’s always an option,” he said.~In the Case of the Dingo, We See Wishes Forming Beliefs
Commentary
It is easier to adhere to preconceived ideas than to follow wherever the evidence may lead. Intellectual honesty is more often praised than practised, and more people read to confirm what they already think to be the case than read to expand their mental horizons.
Perhaps it would be a good idea if, instead of making new year’s resolutions, we reflected upon how many ideas or opinions we had abandoned in the previous twelve months in the light of evidence. I suspect that in most cases it would not be many, or even a single one. I do not exclude myself from this generalization.
In his “Autobiography,” Charles Darwin said that he always noted down anything that made difficulties for his theory, for otherwise he was sure to forget it.
I doubt that he was alone in this propensity; and many of us can “smell” in advance, so to speak, what might disturb our pre-conceptions, and therefore avoid reading or listening to it.
This is not to say that we can do away altogether with preconceptions and prejudices. Such is impossible, and what is impossible cannot be desirable; even if it were possible, however, it would be foolish.
What is possible, though, is to make ourselves aware of our preconceptions and be willing to test them against evidence and abandon them if necessary. By necessary, I mean intellectually necessary.
We more readily believe what we want to believe than what we don’t want to believe. The wish is often father to the thought.
An interesting example of this influence of wishes on thoughts is the discussion in Australia, sometimes impassioned, over the status of the dingo, apex predator of the Australian ecosystem. Is the dingo a separate species, or is it merely a domestic dog that went feral a long time ago?
You might think that was simply a scientific question, one for mammal taxonomists and geneticists to sort out. Either the dingo is a separate species or it is not. But in fact there is plenty of room for disagreement on this point, in part because the concept of a species is itself sometimes a little fuzzy.
That the dingo is at the least a very close relation of the dog, Canis familiaris, is beyond dispute. It is also agreed that its ancestors arrived on the continent some thousands of years ago, from what is now Indonesia.
The dingo can interbreed with domestic dogs (the ability to interbreed without producing sterile offspring such as a mule being one criterion of speciation), but—according to recent research—rarely does so.
Most dingoes are pure dingoes and after the first weeks of life cannot be domesticated. It is clearly different from a poodle.
The dingo is, if course, a carnivore and on rare occasions is dangerous to man, especially to children. It kills sheep and cattle in substantial numbers, and livestock farmers regard it as a pest. There are up to 50,000 dingoes in the wild.
Does it matter in practice whether or not they are a separate species?
Thanks to human legislation as it is at present, it does. If the dingo is a separate species, it would be protected by laws that protect the native fauna of Australia.
If it is not, in other words if it is merely Canis familiaris gone to the bad, it would not be protected and would be fair game for farmers who wanted to eliminate it as a pest.
The longest continuous fence in the word is in Australia, protecting livestock-farming areas from the predation of dingoes. It is alleged by biologists that the presence of dingoes, or more dingoes, on one side of the fence than the other demonstrates that they have a protective effect on the diversity of fauna because, being the apex predator, they limit the numbers of imported carnivorous competitors such as the domestic cat and the fox, which are far more destructive to small animals. (Australia has an immense number of species of small marsupial and other mammals, some of which are in danger of extinction because of the erosion of their habitat.)
The dingo question divides along the following lines: those who value livestock protection more than nature think of the dingo as a kind of blot on the landscape, and have no objection to their elimination, while those who value the natural world and biodiversity more wish to protect it.
I am not a nature mystic: something is not good just because it is natural. I should welcome the total elimination of the large intestinal worm, Ascaris lumbricoides, for example.
And yet, though I cannot count myself a lover of the wilderness, I do feel a sadness when many species become rare or extinct.
The Tasmanian tiger, Thylacinus cynocephalus, the largest marsupial carnivore, was hunted to extinction because it, too, was accused of harming the livestock industry of the island; and it is heart-breaking to see the footage in Hobart zoo in 1936 of the last Tasmanian tiger alive.
It had no concept of its own death of course, let alone that of the extinction of its species, but still I cannot help but feel the tragedy of it, and that the world is a slightly poorer place without such animals.
Certainly, ever since its death, many people have devoted much of their spare time, and even their lives, to trying to find survivors in the wild, as others try to prove the existence of flying saucers or the Loch Ness monster.
Though it is unlikely that I shall ever visit Tasmania again, I should rejoice if there were conclusive proof of the continued existence, rather than just alleged sightings, of the Tasmanian tiger.
What is interesting, however, from the psychological point of view is that those who think that the dingo is a valuable part of Australia’s native fauna and want to preserve it tend to argue for its being a separate species, while those who think it is a pest argue for it being merely a dog gone wrong, as it were.
Strictly speaking, the question of whether or not it is a separate species should have nothing to do with whether or not you like it and wish to preserve it. But a matter that is supposedly one of fact, and fact alone, is subordinated in many people’s mind to one of value.
It ought to be possible to think that the dingo is a dog gone wrong and wish to preserve it, or alternatively that it is a separate species and wish (as I do with Ascaris lumbricoides) to eliminate it. But it is not usual to do so.
The effect of our wishes exerts a powerful influence on our beliefs of what is actually the case. Probably this is an inevitable feature of human psychology. It is only by being aware of it that we can avoid its dangers.
Theodore Dalrymple is a retired doctor. He is contributing editor of the City Journal of New York and the author of 30 books, including “Life at the Bottom.” His latest book is “Embargo and Other Stories.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~People wait in line to receive a dose of the Sinovac's CoronaVac vaccine during a vaccination day for 65-year-old and older citizens in Duque de Caxias near Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on March 29, 2021. (Ricardo Moraes/Reuters)
Death Toll Exceeds a Million in Chinese Vaccine-Reliant Latin America
The death toll from the CCP virus in Latin America and the Caribbean has now exceeded 1 million.
In a statement, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) said that as of May 21, nearly 89 percent of deaths in Latin America and the Caribbean occurred in the countries of Brazil (44.3 percent), Mexico (22.1 percent), Colombia (8.3 percent), Argentina (7.3 percent) and Peru (6.7 percent). Three percent of the deaths were concentrated in Central America and 1 percent in the Caribbean.
As of May 31, Brazil had more than 462,000 deaths attributed to the pandemic, the second-highest reported death toll in the world after the United States. Mexico, with more than 223,000 deaths, ranks second in the region, followed by Colombia with more than 88,000 deaths.
Currently, the PAHO has delivered more than 12 million doses of vaccines procured through the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 vaccines global access initiative to Latin America and the Caribbean, with an additional 770,000 doses being shipped to these areas.
According to the data of the PAHO, several Latin American countries, including Chile, El Salvador, Brazil, and Uruguay, rely almost entirely on vaccines produced in China.
On May 20, the Chinese communist regime’s Xinhua News Agency reported that Chinese vaccines Sinovac, Sinopharm, and CanSino are being administered on a large scale in Latin American countries such as Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Argentina, and Peru.
The report also said that, according to the latest statistics from the PAHO, as of May 14, 26 Latin American and Caribbean countries had received more than 84 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, nearly 55 million doses—or around 65 percent—were Chinese vaccines.
NBC reported on May 23 that China has shipped more than 165 million doses of Chinese vaccines to Latin America and the Caribbean in recent months.
Gao Fu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control, speaks during a State Council Information Office press conference in Beijing on Jan. 26, 2020. (Noel Celis/AFP via Getty Images)
The report quoted experts saying the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is using vaccines to advance its agenda in Latin America. Latin American officials have also said the CCP has asked Latin America to cut ties with Taiwan in exchange for the vaccine.
Many countries in South and Central America and the Middle East that have embraced communist China’s “vaccine diplomacy,” including Brazil, Chile, Pakistan, and Turkey, have seen a spike in confirmed viral infections and strong side effects among vaccine recipients after widespread administration of the Sinovac vaccine.
On April 10, at a Chinese national conference on vaccines and health, Gao Fu, director of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, admitted that China’s vaccines don’t offer much protection and that the effectiveness might be improved by using several types of vaccines in an alternating fashion.
In January, the Instituto Butantan, a leading Brazilian producer of vaccines, lowered the effectiveness rate of the Sinovac vaccine from 77.96 percent to 50.38 percent, and in March, three phases of clinical trials in Peru of the Sinopharm vaccine showed that the vaccine by Beijing Bio, a subsidiary of Sinopharm, was only 11.5 percent effective; Wuhan Bio’s vaccine was 33 percent effective, far below the CCP’s claim of nearly 80 percent.~President Ronald Reagan addresses the people of West Berlin at the base of the Brandenburg Gate on June 12, 1987. The President's words could also be heard on the eastern side of the wall. "Tear down this wall!" he said to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. His address that day is considered by many to have affirmed the beginning of the end of the Cold War and the fall of communism. (Mike Sargent/AFP via Getty Images)
New or Old Cold War?
Commentary
Over the past two years there has been much talk of a “New Cold War” possibly now breaking out between the United States and China. The truth, however, is that it’s not new. It’s the same old Cold War just being conducted in new ways.
The notion of a new Cold War arises from the widespread belief that the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union ended the war in victory for the free world. This view was strengthened by the 1979 establishment of formal relations between the United States and Communist China and by what appeared to the outside world to be an economic policy turn by Beijing onto the capitalist road. Indeed, under the Mao Zedong regime, many Chinese had been jailed and even executed for being “capitalist roaders.” Now it seemed the whole regime was becoming a capitalist roader. At least that was the impression of most free world observers.
These events sparked euphoria in America and the rest of the free world. Indeed, so much so that leading political philosopher Francis Fukuyama wrote a book entitled “The End of History and the Last Man.” By that title he was referencing Marxist teaching which predicted the establishment of the dictatorship of the proletariat as the final stage of dialectics. But Fukuyama was saying that the end is democracy and human rights not dictatorship by any class.
This was all very comforting and relaxing for America and the rest of the free world. Indeed, as China began to welcome foreign investment and to open its markets to imports from abroad, a euphoria came over the free world in the form of an expectation that free trade and the impact of market forces in China would inevitably lead to its ultimate political democratization. President Bill Clinton laughed when told that China was trying to censor the Internet and said it would be “like trying to nail Jello to the wall.” President George W. Bush said that free trade inevitably carries with it the seeds of democracy. Indeed, it was the expectation that globalization would liberalize and democratize Chinese politics that convinced the free world countries to admit China to the World Trade Organization in 2001.
A man walks on the bund in front of the financial district of Pudong in Shanghai, China, on March 9, 2016. (Aly Song/Reuters)
But were America and the rest of the free world seeing reality or were they being deceived, or, worse, were they deceiving themselves?
In the wake of the death of Mao, the Chinese economy was primitive and barely feeding the people. Deng Xiaoping and the other party leaders debated what to do. Deng pushed for some opening to market forces, famously saying that “to get rich is wonderful.” Other leaders such as Li Peng opposed introduction of market forces for fear that it would lead to revival of the rich, bourgeois classes. In response, Deng famously said that “of course, if we open the windows a few flies will enter.” But he was confident that the Communist Party could control the flies and eventually kill them.
In this context, it must be remembered that a major force driving China for the past one hundred and fifty years had been to rectify the great humiliation visited upon the country by the western protagonists of the opium wars and by the revitalized Japanese empire of the early twentieth century. Sun Yat-sen had voiced this sense of helplessness in saying at one point that “China is nothing but a slate of loose sand.” Both the KMT (Kuomintang) under Chiang Kai-shek and the CCP under Mao Zedong had sought to recover China’s ancient pride and power. Indeed, when Mao made his famous “China has stood up” speech in 1949 one wonders if Chiang, then in lonely exile in Taipei, might have had a moment of empathy with his old adversary.
Western audiences have some difficulty in understanding this awful sense of humiliation on the part of Chinese. After all, two of China’s greatest dynasties, the Yuan and the Qing, were not Chinese, but Mongol and Manchurian. The western countries had never occupied and directly ruled China as had the Mongols and the Manchus. Why, they ask, was complete conquest preferable among the Chinese to occasional outside interference from the West? What they don’t realize is that while the Mongols and Manchus physically conquered China, they in turn had been conquered by Chinese civilization and ruled through the pre-existing bureaucratic structure based on the Imperial Examination. Thus, unlike the Asian peoples over whom China’s civilization had loomed as superior for ages, the newcomers from the West viewed China not only as weak, but as technologically and culturally inferior. This was a national insult that demanded redress.
From its beginning, the CCP aimed not only to recover China’s full sovereignty and independence but to restore the country to its long-accustomed position of the globally hegemonic Middle Kingdom. Deng may have been more flexible than Mao in terms of the tools and economic policies he would use, but his and the CCP’s aims were not different. Indeed, in discussing the international scene after the massacre of students demonstrating in Tiananmen Square on June 4, 1989, Deng spoke of a “new Cold War.”
Hundreds of thousands of Chinese gather in Tiananmen Square around a 10-meter replica of the Statue of Liberty (C), called the Goddess of Democracy, demanding democracy despite martial law in Beijing, on June 2, 1989. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of protesters were killed by China’s military on June 3 and 4, 1989, as communist leaders ordered an end to six weeks of unprecedented democracy protests in the heart of the Chinese capital. (Catherine Henriette/AFP via Getty Images)
In that context, it is clear China has long aimed at achieving maximum self-sufficiency and global leadership. As early as 1993, China began constructing the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System to duplicate the U.S. GPS and European Galileo systems despite having full access to both the other systems. The construction of the Great Firewall in 1997 to separate the Chinese Internet from the World Wide Web and the barring of companies like Google, Amazon, and Facebook from the Chinese market were clear declarations of Cold War. The CCP did not really accept full globalization despite constantly telling the annual Davos meeting that it did. Indeed, Beijing created its own counterpoint to Davos with the Boao Forum.
The announcement in 2015 of the Made in China 2025 policy was effectively a declaration of Cold War against the principles of the World Trade Organization of which China is a member and against the high technology industries of the free world. This has been accompanied by the quasi militarization of the South China Sea, rapid expansion of the Chinese armed forces, and extensive hacking attacks on free world governments and corporations, and pressure on U.S. professional basketball coaches not to speak about Hong Kong and arbitrary, illegal barring of imports from countries like Australia that have called for an international investigation of the origins of COVID-19.
For forty years, the United States and other free world countries spoke of China becoming “a responsible stakeholder in the rules based, global order.” In March 2018, The Economist magazine cover story announced that the Free World had “Made the Wrong Bet on China.” It did not want to become a stakeholder in a global order established by others. It wanted to establish its own authoritarian world order.
The fact is that the world is not in a new Cold War. The old Cold War actually never ended.
Clyde Prestowitz is an Asia and globalization expert, a veteran U.S. trade negotiator, and presidential adviser. He was the leader of the first U.S. trade mission to China in 1982 and has served as an adviser to Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama. As Counselor to the Secretary of Commerce in the Reagan administration, Mr. Prestowitz headed negotiations with Japan, South Korea, and China. Mr. Prestowitz’s newest book is “The World Turned Upside Down: China, America and the Struggle for Global Leadership,” published in January 2021.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas holds a press briefing in the Brady Briefing Room of the White House in Washington, on May 11, 2021. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP via Getty Images)
Ministry of Truth 2.0
Commentary
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas is reportedly considering the development of tools that would help America’s children discern truth from lies and know when they are being fed “disinformation.”
The Washington Times, which first reported the story, says a department spokesperson declined to give details, but that more information would be revealed “in the coming weeks.”
Mayorkas might want to start by fact-checking his recent claim that the U.S. southern border is “closed.” He made the statement when news pictures showed waves of people crossing the border. Should kids believe him, or their “lying eyes”?
Should anyone, regardless of political party or persuasion, be comfortable with government telling especially children what they can believe and whom they can trust? This is what totalitarian states do. It’s called propaganda.
We are already inundated with political correctness, cancel culture, and woke-ism. TV networks spend more time delivering opinion and slanting stories to particular points of view than what once resembled—if not objective journalism—then at least fairness.
The list of government officials who have lied is long and dates back to the founders of the nation. Some lies could be defended on national security grounds. Others were used to cover up wrongdoing or enhance the image of the one who lied.
In recent years, we recall President Clinton’s denial of having sex with Monica Lewinsky, President Obama’s claim about his health care program: “If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor,” President George H.W. Bush’s “Read my lips, no new taxes,” assertions by the George W. Bush administration that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, Richard Nixon’s lies about Watergate, the lies told by Lyndon Johnson, members of his administration and generals about how we were winning the war in Vietnam (Johnson had pledged during the 1964 campaign not to send Americans to fight in Vietnam, another lie), and the CEO of R.J. Reynolds telling a congressional committee in 1994 that “cigarette smoking is no more ‘addictive’ than coffee, tea, or Twinkies.” The Washington Post reported in January that by the end of his term, former President Trump “had accumulated 30,573 untruths during his presidency—averaging about 21 erroneous claims a day.”
I could go on, but you get the point.
George Orwell was prescient when he wrote in “1984” about Newspeak and the Ministry of Truth. We have already achieved the former in what we are allowed to say, or not say, lest we be smeared with nasty rhetorical stains. Let’s revisit the Ministry of Truth for those who haven’t read the book or need a reminder.
The Ministry of Truth was related to Newspeak in that it had nothing to do with truth, but propaganda by another name. Its job was to falsify historical records in ways that aligned with government policies and its version of those events. It was also tasked with defining truth, which sometimes resulted in “doublespeak,” or contradictions, that served the purposes of the state.
Truth has become subjective and relative in modern times and is now personal. You have your “truth” and I have my “truth.” Even when they contradict each other, it doesn’t matter as long as we both feel good about it.
This flawed notion has contributed to our cultural decline.
Try this experiment if you want to see how far we have moved from objective truth. Go to any popular definition website and type in “truth.” They assume truth exists and can be discovered.
The truth is supposed to set us free, but if we can’t recognize or define it, we will be in bondage. Secretary Mayorkas should reread Orwell’s novel and then abandon any plans to indoctrinate schoolchildren.
John Calvin Thomas has been a syndicated columnist, author, and radio commentator for more than 35 years. His latest book is “America’s Expiration Date: The Fall of Empires and Superpowers and the Future of the United States.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~US Seafood Ban of Chinese Company Over Forced Labor Is Not Enough
Commentary
The United States on May 28 banned seafood imports from Dalian Ocean Fishing Company in China, due to evidence of the utilization of forced labor. The evidence includes four dead Indonesian fishermen on Dalian ships and secretly recorded video of their coffins being thrown overboard. Other footage that indicates forced labor at sea includes a fisher too weak to walk, who reportedly later died and was thrown overboard near Somalia. One fisher was found dead in a freezer in July 2020. The next month, three Indonesians were filmed begging for rescue from a Chinese fishing boat.
According to a State Department press statement, “U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the Department of Homeland Security, issued Withhold Release Orders (WROs) for seafood products imported from the Dalian Ocean Fishing Company, a firm in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) for which there is credible evidence of the use of forced labor to harvest its seafood, primarily tuna.”
“As a result, the United States is prohibiting the import of seafood products from this company,” the statement continued.
This is not the first time that the U.S. State Department addressed China’s use of forced labor in its fishing industry. The Department’s 2020 Human Rights Report also described such forced labor, including among migrant workers in China. “These workers are forced to work 18 to 22 hours a day, often in illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing,” according to the statement. “They are prevented from leaving their ships while facing hunger, restricted communication, inadequate medical care, degrading living and working conditions, physical abuse, and debt-based coercion.”
China’s distant-water fishing fleet also utilizes forced labor, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. “The United States will promote accountability for those who use forced labor to exploit individuals for profit, and we will work with our international partners to ensure that the voiceless are heard and protected,” the statement ended.
Fishermen are waiting to move fish to shore in Dalian, Liaoning Province on May 21, 2013. The term “Garden City” that has come in vogue in China, started in Dalian. Another more accurate description for Dalian is that the city resembles Europe, while the surrounding rural area resembles Africa. (AFP/AFP/Getty Images)
Last year, Greenpeace covered the forced labor of Indonesians in Dalian’s fishing fleet. “Protecting [Indonesian] citizens means ensuring all players in the industry are held accountable—the manning agencies that are exploiting vulnerable workers for a quick buck; seafood companies and retailers turning a blind eye to forced labor and human trafficking being committed in their supply chain; and the Indonesian government’s continued inaction on the need for proper global identification, and monitoring and surveillance on global distant water fishing (DWF) fleets where migrant fishers are being employed.”
But even these measures are insufficient, and could introduce market distortions that harm poor migrant fishermen. The State Department’s punitive measures against Dalian are in the right direction, but banning a single Chinese company’s catch from U.S. markets is symbolic at best.
Dalian Ocean Fishing will find other ready consumers to buy its tuna. Perhaps it will change its name, or export through a reseller, thus continuing to sell forced labor seafood into the U.S. market. Real action against forced labor in China’s fishing fleet requires tougher measures, including broader economic sanctions against China’s fishing fleet as a whole, a global ban on Dalian’s fish catch, or if necessary, the international confiscation of the Dalian ships that are proven to utilize forced labor.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Container ships sit in berths at the Port of Los Angeles, Calif. on October 15, 2014. (Lucy Nicholson/File Photo)
Competing Infrastructure Pronouncements Use Large, Mostly Nonsensical Numbers
Commentary
A group of four Republican senators on May 27 unveiled a $928 billion infrastructure spending plan.
It was in response to U.S. President Joe Biden administration’s cutting about $74 billion from its proposed $2.3 trillion infrastructure proposal which, according to The Epoch Times’ analysis, was only intended to spend 21 percent on traditional infrastructure.
The administration now proposes $39 billion less for roads and bridges and $35 billion less for broadband.
The Biden administration has also moved some $480 billion of its proposed “infrastructure” spending into bills focused on research and development spending, or industrial policy. Therefore, it claims its “infrastructure” proposal is now only $1.7 trillion.
After adding back that $480 billion and making the adjustments for the actual text of the White House briefing document, The Epoch Times’ analysis shows that the administration is still proposing spending $2.3 trillion of the original $2.374 trillion proposed.
For their part, much of what the Republicans proposed May 27 would likely have been spent anyway.
Their own “Republican Roadmap” document, the four senators admitted, “includes [a] $91 billion increase over baseline spending for roads and bridges and a $48 billion increase over baseline spending for water infrastructure …. It also includes a one-time increase of $25 billion for airports and $65 billion for broadband… a $22 billion increase over baseline spending for passenger and freight rail and an additional $6 billion for water storage in the West.”
In other words, the Republicans’ so-called $928 billion proposal is actually offering only about $257 billion additional infrastructure funding, versus what was likely to be spent anyway.
Maybe as at least one glimmer of sunshine through these murky public negotiations: both sides now agree that $65 billion should be spent on increasing access to broadband.
Tim Shaler is a professional investor and economist based in Southern California. He is a regular columnist for The Epoch Times, where he exclusively provides some of his original economic analysis.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~China Has a Problem With New Working Hands and Minds
Commentary
The Middle Kingdom’s population is aging. It has fewer young people to replace the retiring older generation, the one that manned the machinery of China’s huge advances since Deng Xiaoping abandoned Mao Zedong’s economic model. This demographic challenge presents China’s economy with a huge challenge. The problem is one of Beijing’s own making. It was after all Deng who promulgated the one-child policy that has so limited the supply of young workers. At this point, however, it matters less what caused the problem than that one exists. A shortage of young workers will tend to slow the pace of economic growth and development, and steal much of the dynamism that has thus far characterized Chinese economics.
While Beijing is no doubt aware of this matter, it is strangely absent in many otherwise insightful and detailed western commentaries on and analyses of developing Sino-American relations. It is not that the facts are hidden, but these analyses, perhaps because most of these writers have primarily diplomatic, military, and political instead of economic backgrounds, too often proceed on the assumption that China’s economy will somehow remain unaffected, retain much of its former dynamism, and continue to confront the world with an all-but-unstoppable economic juggernaut.
Perhaps, if China succeeds in its Belt and Road Initiative these assumptions will remain realistic. Likelihoods, however, demand that these analyses, wherever they begin, need to take account of this huge change coming in China, how it will limit that otherwise remarkable economy, and by implication how it will affect Beijing’s capabilities in the years to come, whether economic, political, or diplomatic, as well as military.
In this undated photo, laborers walk through the Gwadar Port in Pakistan, a multi-billion dollar infrastructure project that China has invested in as part of its Belt and Road Initiative. (Amelie Herenstein/AFP/Getty Images)
Today’s developing demographic pressures are radically different from those China enjoyed during the period of its remarkable development. Back in 1979, when Deng abandoned Mao’s failed economic model (and incidentally promulgated the one-child policy) China had an abundance of labor resources.
The part of the population available for work—conventionally designated as those between the ages of 15 and 64—amounted to some 90 percent of the adult population. With nine ready for work for every dependent retiree, China had an easy time meeting the demands of industrialization and development. Compare this to the situation in the United States at the time, which had barely five people of working age for every dependent retiree. But the one-child policy undermined this strength. It brought China’s birth rate below replacement to a mere 1.6 children on average in each woman’s lifetime, according to United Nations demographers. By the mid-1990s, the flow of young people into the workforce began to slow and in this century has fallen short of the numbers retiring. China’s workforce is actually shrinking, both absolutely and relative to the numbers of dependent retirees.
Though Beijing has recently relaxed the one-child policy, it will take 15 to 20 years before any new births can have an impact on the workforce, and besides preliminary data indicates that the fertility rate has failed to rise. Accordingly, U.N. demographers estimate that by 2040, absolute numbers in the country’s working population will have declined 10 percent from today’s level, while its population of dependent retirees will have increased some 50 percent. The economy will have barely three workers for each dependent retiree. That is little different from Japan. Those three workers will have to produce enough for their own needs, those of their other dependents, and one-third of a retiree’s support. China will have little productive surplus for future investments much less the grand projects that have drawn so much attention in the past. The economy will have lost much of its dynamism and flexibility.
Unlike aging western economies, China cannot count on immigration to mitigate this impact. Few are clamoring to get into China, and even if people were, the country’s existing population is so large that the flow would have to surpass all precedents to make a difference. In any case, it is not happening.
Chinese migrant workers arrive to board a train at Shanghai station before returning to their home towns for the Chinese New Year holiday, in Shanghai, China, on Feb. 8, 2007. (Mark Ralston/AFP via Getty Images)
Of course, labor power is not the whole story. Technological advances, especially artificial intelligence (AI), and the productivity increases it will bring will allow a more efficient use of China’s available human resources. No doubt China will make strides in these areas, but the aging demographics will also limit the economy’s abilities to innovate.
Demographers, using patent data and statistics on Nobel Prize winners, have determined that people in the 30 to 40 age cohort provide the bulk of society’s inventiveness. Cross country studies show that this fact holds in all cultures and economic systems. This age cohort in China is set to shrink over the next 20 years from 43 percent of the workforce to 37 percent. This relative loss may do less damage to China’s centrally planned economy than it would to a more open Western economy that depends on competition for innovation, but it is nonetheless hardly a positive for China’s economy going forward.
On the financial side of the equation, the need to care for the elderly will impose additional restraints on China’s economic outlook. With fully 25 percent of the adult population over 64 years of age in 2040, China will qualify as what demographers quaintly call a “super-aged” population, more extreme than even Japan presently. Since at last count, less than 65 percent of Chinese workers have any kind of pension plan, much of the burden of supporting this huge population of retirees will fall on Beijing’s shoulders or on those of the provincial and local governments, which in China amounts to the same thing. These huge financial demands will absorb tremendous amounts of government resources. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates that already Beijing’s unfunded pension obligations amount to 100 percent of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). Unless Beijing’s decision makers act quickly, which they seem to have no inclination to do, that burden will only grow.
Against this backdrop, Beijing may well see the Belt and Road Initiative as a way to mitigate the demographic effects. If before the demographic pressures become intense, this initiative allows China to amass the ownership and control of foreign facilities, the country will have acquired a partial substitute for what it will lose in its domestic economic capabilities. Presently, China mostly uses its own labor to construct and run projects in the Belt and Road, but in time it could, much as the British Empire did, use native labor, reserving for its own citizens management roles. Perhaps, as also happened with the British Empire, the arrangement would garner for China a loyalty among a group of natives that supersedes that group’s loyalty to the local or national authority.
None of this says that China will disappear as a major power or that its economy will cease growing. It does say, however, that contrary to many of today’s media discussions and analyses of Sino-American relations, China’s economic growth rate will slow appreciably going forward, as will its pace of development and innovation.
Beijing will be less able than in the past to wow observers with grand investment schemes. Circumstances will also impose on Beijing’s military and space ambitions, though these are inexpensive in both financial and economic terms compared with either broad-based development or future pension demands. China will begin to resemble Japan in crucial ways, except that Japan got rich before it aged, whereas China, still not rich, will age first.
Milton Ezrati is a contributing editor at The National Interest, an affiliate of the Center for the Study of Human Capital at the University at Buffalo (SUNY), and chief economist for Vested, the New York-based communications firm. His latest book is “Thirty Tomorrows: The Next Three Decades of Globalization, Demographics, and How We Will Live.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey answers a question about the arrival of a COVID-19 vaccine in Arizona, while Arizona Department of Health Services Director Dr. Cara Christ listens, in Phoenix, Ariz., on Dec. 2, 2020. (Ross D. Franklin, Pool/AP Photo, File)
Arizona Governor Vetoes 22 Bills, Including Election Integrity and Anti-Critical Race Theory Legislation
Arizona Republican Gov. Doug Ducey vetoed 22 bills on May 28, including measures relating to election integrity and critical race theory, arguing that lawmakers need to focus on passing a budget.
“Today, I vetoed 22 bills. Some are good policy, but with one month left until the end of the fiscal year, we need to focus first on passing a budget. That should be priority one. The other stuff can wait,” Ducey wrote on Twitter.
The governor, a Republican, said he won’t sign any more bills until a budget is passed.
Republicans in the state, including Arizona GOP Chairwoman Kelli Ward, noted that some of the bills that were vetoed include an election integrity measure and a bill that would prohibit entities from using taxpayer funds to promote the quasi-Marxist critical race theory (CRT).
According to the Arizona Legislature’s website, House Bill 2792—which would bar the mass mailing of ballots to residents who didn’t request them—was vetoed on May 28 by the governor. The measure would make it a felony for an election official to send a ballot to a voter who hadn’t requested it.
Another bill that was vetoed by Ducey, Senate Bill 1074, would prohibit the critical race theory training of government workers that “presents any form of blame or judgment on the basis of race, ethnicity, or sex,” reported the Arizona Mirror.
Ducey also vetoed Senate Bill 1514, which would have made the state’s Department of Housing provide emergency shelter for homeless senior residents in Maricopa County, among other pieces of legislation.
The governor also vetoed measures proposed by Democrats in the legislature, including two bills that would establish new testing and inspection requirements for marijuana dispensaries, the Mirror reported.
House Speaker Rusty Bowers, a Republican, described Ducey’s May 28 executive actions as disappointing.
“Truthfully, I’m not happy about it, but it’s a civics lesson reminder that it takes 31-16-1 to be successful here. Sometimes we forget about the one,” Bowers told the Arizona Mirror. “I believe that the proposed budget is good, and I’m determined to keep working with our diverse caucus until there is unity to move forward. I’m optimistic that will happen soon.”
Ward was more forceful in her criticism.
“Twenty-two bills that the legislative branch worked all session on. Bills that went through the process & passed & went to the executive’s desk. This tyrannical approach is dangerous to what #WeThePeople in AZ support #ElectionIntegrity #StopCRT,” Ward wrote on Twitter.
But Ducey wrote that the state will “have the opportunity to make responsible and significant investments in K-12 education, higher education, infrastructure, and local communities, all while delivering historic tax relief to working families and small businesses.”
“Once the budget passes, I’m willing to consider some of these other issues. But until then, I will not be signing any additional bills. Let’s focus on our jobs, get to work and pass the budget,” he said, without making reference to election measures or critical race theory.
However, state Rep. Mark Finchem, a Republican currently running for Arizona’s Secretary of State office, said on “War Room Pandemic” that the state legislature didn’t pass the budget because it “has so much pork in it, you’d think we were going to a barbecue,” accusing Ducey of acting as a “petty dictator.”
The governor’s office didn’t respond to a request for comment by The Epoch Times by press time.~U.S. Marines moving positions during battle in Garapan, during the Pacific Campaign of World War Two, Saipan, circa 1943-1945. (U.S. Marine Corps/Getty Images)
A Soldier Fights So That Others Might Live
Commentary
The Medal of Honor citation says it all: “As the perimeter began to be overrun, it became increasingly difficult for Captain Salomon to work on the wounded. He then saw a Japanese soldier bayoneting one of the wounded soldiers lying near the tent. Firing from a squatting position, Captain Salomon quickly killed the enemy soldier. Then, as he turned his attention back to the wounded, two more Japanese soldiers appeared in the front entrance of the tent.
“As these enemy soldiers were killed, four more crawled under the tent walls. Rushing them, Captain Salomon kicked the knife out of the hand of one, shot another, and bayoneted a third. Captain Salomon butted the fourth enemy soldier in the stomach and a wounded comrade then shot and killed the enemy soldier. Realizing the gravity of the situation, Captain Salomon ordered the wounded to make their way as best they could back to the regimental aid station, while he attempted to hold off the enemy until they were clear.
“Captain Salomon then grabbed a rifle from one of the wounded and rushed out of the tent. After four men were killed while manning a machine gun, Captain Salomon took control of it. When his body was later found, 98 dead enemy soldiers were piled in front of his position.”
So who was Benjamin L. Salomon, the man who practically single-handedly took on the entire Imperial Japanese Army on Saipan on July 7, 1944, and fought to his last breath so that others might live?
The first and last answer is: He was an American, doing what Americans have always done best: fighting for the country he loved. Born in Milwaukee in 1914, Salomon studied at Marquette University and the University of Southern California, where he attended dental college and went into private practice. Drafted in the fall of 1940, shortly after FDR instituted the first peacetime draft in U.S. history, Salomon was inducted as a private into the U.S. Army.
The young dentist quickly proved adept at marksmanship with both rifle and pistol, and was quickly promoted to sergeant and given command of a machine-gun unit. With America’s entry into the war after Pearl Harbor, Salomon was promoted to first lieutenant and—despite his talent for war and against his wishes—transferred to the Dental Corps.
Now, a member of the 105th Infantry Regiment and promoted to captain, Salomon hit the beach on the island of Saipan in the Marianas Islands. Under heavy, desperate Japanese resistance, there wasn’t much work for a dentist, so Salomon volunteered to replace his battalion’s surgeon, who had been wounded.
Saipan was critical to the Japanese defense of their home islands, and they were prepared to make the Americans pay dearly for every inch of it. The Japanese commander, Yoshitsugu Saito, had ordered his troops to fight to the last man, and each to kill at least 10 Americans before falling.
“Whether we attack or whether we stay where we are, there is only death. However, in death there is life. I will advance with you to deliver another blow to the American devils and leave my bones on Saipan as a fortress of the Pacific,” he said.
The Medal of Honor citation puts the dire situation into context.
“The Regiment’s 1st and 2nd Battalions were attacked by an overwhelming force estimated between 3,000 and 5,000 Japanese soldiers. It was one of the largest attacks attempted in the Pacific Theater during World War II. Although both units fought furiously, the enemy soon penetrated the Battalions’ combined perimeter and inflicted overwhelming casualties. In the first minutes of the attack, approximately 30 wounded soldiers walked, crawled, or were carried into Captain Salomon’s aid station, and the small tent soon filled with wounded men.”
This was war at its most elemental. The Japanese, with no hope of help and nowhere to run, hid in caves by day and attacked by night. The Army and Marines fought the most brutal war imaginable, with flamethrowers and bayonets and bare hands, in addition to rifles, sidearms, and machine guns. The Japanese would attack in waves, kamikazes of the infantry, attempting to overrun the American positions as the GIs pressed forward.
Salomon’s mobile hospital was set up near the front lines in the early dawn of July 7, just meters between the forward foxholes and the sea. The Japanese burst out of their concealed positions and sent the Americans reeling back. The hospital was soon filled with the wounded as the fighting raged all around it.
Salomon realized his position was untenable and ordered the wounded evacuated while he stayed behind to cover them. It was at this point that his ability with guns and weaponry came into play.
“Everybody’s dead out there,” he was reported to have said. “I can do these guys more good out there than I can in here. I’ll hold them off until you get them to safety. See you later.”
When they found his body, it was riddled with bullet and bayonet wounds, many of them apparently inflicted after death by the enraged enemy. Where Saito had demanded that each of his men kill 10 Americans, one dauntless American had killed more than 100 Japanese.
Salomon’s Medal of Honor was delayed by bureaucratic misinterpretation of the Geneva convention, which outlaws identified medical personnel from taking up arms; Salomon was wearing a Red Cross armband when he died. But in fact, doctors are allowed to fight in defense of their wounded and so, on May 1, 2002—nearly 58 years after his heroic actions—President George W. Bush officially awarded the medal posthumously to Captain Benjamin Lewis Salomon.
The citation concludes: “Captain Salomon’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army.” And, it must be added, upon all Americans who put their country before themselves.
Do we still have such men today?
Michael Walsh is the editor of The-Pipeline.org and the author of “The Devil’s Pleasure Palace” and “The Fiery Angel,” both published by Encounter Books. His latest book, “Last Stands,” a cultural study of military history from the Greeks to the Korean War, was recently published.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~President Joe Biden (R) and South Korean President Moon Jae-in participate in a joint press conference in the East Room of the White House in Washington on May 21, 2021. (Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
South Korean Expert: Moon Jae-in’s Pro-US Statement A Result of Domestic Anti-CCP Pressure
News Analysis
A South Korean military expert has said it remains to be seen whether South Korean President Moon Jae-in’s stance toward the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will change after his visit to the United States. Moon concluded his four-day visit to the United States on May 22. The two countries signed a joint statement that for the first time mentioned the Taiwan Strait and South China Sea issues, surpassing the Korean public’s expectations of a government that has, to date, been in lockstep with the CCP’s influence efforts.
On May 21, U.S. President Joe Biden met with Moon at the White House and published a joint statement on issues of mutual concern, including the Korean Peninsula, peace in the Indo-Pacific, and U.S.-South Korea relations.
The statement said the two countries oppose any action that threatens, disrupts, or undermines the rules-based international order and are committed to maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific region. It stressed the importance of preserving peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, and the importance of the “QUAD” (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) between the United States, Japan, India, and Australia to contain the CCP.
The statement also ended the South Korea Ballistic Missile Range Guidelines signed in 1979, lifting the 800 kilometer (497 mile) limit on the range of South Korean missiles. That would put Beijing, which is 950 kilometers (590 miles) from South Korea, within range of its missiles. South Korean media said that this move paves the way for the country to improve its own strength and control the CCP.
South Korean newspaper JoongAng Ilbo reported that Moon returned to South Korea on the evening of May 23. On his way from Washington to Atlanta, Moon posted a message on social media saying that he had had “the best visit and the best meeting ever,” which had “achieved more than expected results.”
“Moon’s remarks mean that he has agreed to readjust the alliance between South Korea and the United States over the past four years. The South Korean government, which has been adhering to a ‘vague strategy,’ has decided to refocus on the U.S. in the face of the U.S.-China conflict,” the report quoted a diplomat saying.
Declining Approval Ratings Force Moon to Change
Kim Tae Woo, a professor of military science at Konyang University in South Korea, told The Epoch Times that Moon’s declining domestic approval rating was one of the main reasons for his recent pro-American statements.
According to the Chosun Ilbo newspaper, a poll released on April 30 showed that Moon’s approval rating had dropped below 30 percent for the first time to 29 percent—the lowest since he took office.
Many South Koreans have long been dissatisfied with Moon’s pro-CCP policies. After the outbreak of the CCP virus last year, 1.45 million Koreans signed an impeachment petition calling for Moon’s ouster. “President Moon Jae-in’s policy toward the novel coronavirus shows that he is more like the president of China than the president of the Republic of Korea,” the impeachment document said.
According to a recent Pew Research Center survey, the percentage of South Koreans who now have a negative view of China has risen from 37 percent in 2015 to 75 percent in 2020, with 80 percent of young people having a negative view.
Moon Made No Breakthroughs With Pro-CCP Stance
The South Korean government has been communicating with the CCP through diplomatic channels about the Korea-U.S. summit, Korea’s Yonhap News Agency revealed, citing sources at the Blue House. Senior officials from the Blue House said that although mention of the Taiwan Strait appeared for the first time in the Korea-U.S. joint statement, it was only an in principle statement of a basic position.
Citing public opinion, Yonhap News Agency reported that, although Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian and Chinese Ambassador to South Korea Xing Haiming expressed dissatisfaction with the South Korea-U.S. statement, it was generally believed that the tone and wording of the statement were far from as harsh as the one that came out of the U.S.-Japan summit.
According to Kim, “The U.S.-Japan statement issued in April drew strong protests from the CCP and differed significantly from the U.S.-South Korea statement. The former focused on the Chinese and North Korean nuclear issues, and directed their cooperation in a specific way, while the U.S.-South Korea statement used a lot of diplomatic rhetoric to reach consensus on the Chinese and North Korean nuclear issues.
About the CCP’s response to the joint statement, Kim said, “At this stage, the CCP is just using diplomatic rhetoric when criticizing the U.S.-South Korea statement. It may believe that the Moon administration will not turn its back on it.
“If the South Korean government is serious about implementing this statement in the future, then the CCP will step up and take action. But of course, we cannot be pushed around by it,” he added.
Another concern of the public is whether there will be a change in Moon’s “Three Noes” promise to the CCP.
In October 2017, to assuage the CCP’s dissatisfaction with South Korea’s THAAD anti-missile system, Moon made a “Three Noes” promise to Beijing, including not making additional deployments of THAAD, not joining the U.S.-led regional missile defense system, and not accepting a trilateral military alliance between the United States, South Korea, and Japan.
Judging by the CCP’s reaction, Moon’s “Three Noes” promise to China has not been affected. While the joint statement talks about trilateral cooperation between the U.S. and Japan, it doesn’t make any commitments.
Implementation of the Declaration Remains to Be Seen
Kim said that judging only from the content in the joint statement, the declaration should still be considered productive. But whether it was sincere is hard to say and remains to be seen.
“I was very unhappy that Moon has been sitting on the fence between the United States and China in order to seek close ties with North Korea and the CCP,” Kim said. “After reading the joint statement, I changed my view upon seeing that the alliance still exists. But based on what the Moon administration has done over the past four years, it remains to be seen how trustworthy South Korea-U.S. statements can be.”
When it comes to Moon’s China policy, Kim said, “Taiwan is a very sensitive topic for Beijing. The U.S.-Japan statement drew strong protests from Beijing because of this issue. Now, the U.S.-South Korea statement has included some of the CCP’s most sensitive issues, such as Taiwan and the South China Sea. Although there is no direct mention of the CCP, the statement refers to it. It’s surprising that Moon, who has stuck to appeasement all the time, would adopt this.”
On the future of the South Korea-U.S. alliance, Kim said that the issue “will be decided by the South Korean election next year. If South Koreans choose socialism and are willing to accept pro-Communist and pro-North Korean forces, the United States will reconsider the alliance, so South Koreans ought to make a correct judgment [next year].”
Epoch Times reporters Yeonjae Lee and Lisa Bian contributed to this report.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Martin Luther King addresses crowds during the March on Washington at the Lincoln Memorial, where he gave his “I Have A Dream” speech in Washington on Aug. 28, 1963. (Central Press/Getty Images)
Critical Race Theory, From a Gen Z Perspective
Commentary
You might wonder why you should care about what a college kid has to say on just about any topic. I don’t blame you. But, on the topic of critical race theory, I would argue we’re uniquely qualified to give our two cents.
I’m an older member of Generation Z. My childhood was not blemished by this newfangled pseudo-philosophy. I thankfully can remember a time when Martin Luther King’s mission was celebrated and upheld in my schooling. But I also was thrust into the critical race theory worldview early in my high school career.
My sub-generation—those of us around college age today—teetered uniquely on the cusp of the explosion of this neo-racist theory. As such, we may be the only ones able to remember a time without it but also know what it means to be steeped in this perverse worldview.
My first recognizable experience with critical race theory came when I was a freshman in high school. In celebration of Martin Luther King Day, we congregated in the auditorium for lectures and activities.
I always approached this day with particular reverence. I was taught its value as a child. It’s a day to recognize common humanity and celebrate our country’s progress toward justice. But that year, my experience was entirely different.
After an introductory speech, the entire student body was told to report to a specific room or building based on their racial identity, systematically segregating students throughout campus.
In doing so, the leaders of the event chose to promote the impression that only those in the same racial category are able to relate to the feelings and experiences of one another. As such, they suggested that conversations about race are better segregated than community-based—ironically on Martin Luther King Day.
I was only 14 years old at the time. It would be years before I even heard the term critical race theory. But, nonetheless, I knew then and there that I dissented. Ever since then, I have watched different iterations of this philosophy creep into my education, impacting the broader culture and mindset of my contemporaries.
Identity politics have exploded on my college campus, the natural byproduct of this misguided neo-racist education we’re steeped in. Generation Z has been divided and told to view one another through the lens of color and difference, and we have done exactly that.
As a believer in Martin Luther King’s authentic mission and cause, this worries me in a truly visceral way. As a culture, we’re willingly turning our backs on the values that promote inclusivity.
I worry, in particular, for the children younger than I am who have never known any different—who can’t recall a time before their immutable characteristics were deemed their defining attributes.
Activist teachers and administrators have hijacked the parental responsibility of activating children and shaping their senses and selves and their general worldview. And, when all authorities seem to bow down to this new ideology, it’s no wonder impressionable young people are swept up in it.
Though such true supporters of critical race theory may be few in number, they’re a powerful minority. Through cancel culture and reputation destruction, their threats of intimidation and slander render them able to shut down most all opposition.
But I have hope, too. There has been a tidal wave of awareness surrounding critical race theory in very recent times. I’d be willing to bet that most people, like myself, didn’t even know the term mere months ago. Nonetheless, it now dominates the national dialogue.
We’re acutely aware of its denigrating effect on society and the wellbeing of our future generations. Parents, teachers, politicians, and activists alike have joined forces to fight this newfangled take on race relations. Even whole organizations have sprung up in opposition.
This is what fills me with optimism, despite the severity of the situation. It’s my hope that more members of my generation, who are uniquely situated in their perspective, will come forward, too. We have been a silent majority. Now we’re making ourselves heard.
Rikki Schlott is a writer and student based in New York. As a young free speech activist, her writing chronicles the rise of illiberalism from a Generation Z perspective. Schlott also works for The Megyn Kelly Show and has been published by The Daily Wire and The Conservative Review.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Fraudsters Go Where the (COVID-19) Money Is
Commentary
In June 2020, eight guys in Brooklyn put their heads together, according to the U.S. Department of Justice, and came up with a scheme to steal strangers’ identities and take what didn’t belong to them.
Just a couple months before that—in the earliest days of the COVID-19 scare—Congress passed a $2.2 trillion bill called the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. The money was supposed to go to the millions of isolated Americans who had their paychecks interrupted during the pandemic.
The mooks in Brooklyn had other plans.
This gang of eight, ranging in age from 18 to 25, submitted some $2 million worth of fake unemployment claims for CARES Act assistance. And they got away with it for nearly a year, according to the feds. Several of these criminals stupidly posted online photos of themselves flashing stacks of money. Others were caught on ATM cameras withdrawing their free cash. Busted!
The more Uncle Sam giveth, the more criminals taketh away. And it wasn’t just the Brooklyn gang. Besides extra money for bigger unemployment checks, Congress allocated nearly $350 billion for Small Business Administration loans to be doled out by vendors at some 3,800 financial institutions.
Now we find out that just one of those lenders, an online firm called Kabbage, OK’d more than $7 million to go to fake companies, mostly nonexistent farms. Speed in disbursement was the name of the game, and apparently, vetting applications was lax. Many entities seeking loans from Kabbage seemed fishy. Farms and cattle ranches on a New Jersey sandbar? An orange grove in Minnesota? A potato field in ritzy Palm Beach, Florida? All were phony baloney.
The SBA’s inspector general now estimates that close to 100,000 loans went to businesses that were ineligible or got more cash than they should have. As of late March, the DOJ has brought criminal fraud charges against 474 people who sought to rake in a collective $570 million.
It’s great that the feds caught up with these cheaters, but there must have been a better way to administer this program from the get-go, right? Simply relying on after-the-fact prosecution is like trying to chase the horse after it bolts through the open barn door.
An acquaintance tells me he was expecting a small relief payment on a debit card but it never arrived. His wife called to trace it, but the automated system required her to punch in the number on the card—which, again, they never received. A typical government Catch-22. They ultimately gave up and are still wondering who got their $318 debit card.
The point is there has been so much money flowing out of the U.S. Treasury over the past year that the task of keeping track of all of it seems futile. Trillions of dollars in aid have already been approved by Congress; trillions more are under consideration.
This isn’t monopoly money, folks. And according to The Wall Street Journal, billions of dollars already pumped into the U.S. economy are still sitting there. Between the CARES Act and the companion American Rescue Plan Act, more than $32 billion earmarked just for pandemic-ravaged hospitals remains unspent. They can’t spend their money fast enough to make the June 30 deadline, so hospitals are seeking an extension.
The Rescue Plan also allocated a windfall $350 billion for states to help spur a post-pandemic recovery. Some states will be swimming in surplus dough, but who in Washington will be checking to see if the lengthy spending rules for that money are actually being followed? Let’s hope the supervision is better than what occurred with the Kabbage loans.
It’s time to remember the reported words of notorious criminal Willie Sutton. When asked why he robbed banks, he is said to have answered, “Because that’s where the money is!”
Whether Sutton actually uttered those words is in dispute, but this is a certainty: The criminal element will flock to wherever there is an abundance of cash and lax oversight. Today, money is being printed and is flowing out of the U.S. Treasury at a ferocious pace. Calculating criminals are making plans.
When the U.S. government isn’t diligent, taxpayers lose. It’s abundantly clear that conscientious oversight isn’t being practiced. I say, no more money bills until that changes.
Diane Dimond is an author and investigative journalist. Her latest book is “Thinking Outside the Crime and Justice Box.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis departs after signing into law Senate Bill 7072 at Florida International University in Miami on May 24, 2021. (Samira Bouaou/The Epoch Times)
DeSantis Says He’ll ‘Enforce Florida Law’ Against Vaccine Passports After Cruise Line Unveils Plans
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has reiterated that his state won’t embrace so-called “vaccine passports” in the midst of confusion about whether a federally mandated system will be implemented for airplane and cruise travelers.
“We are going to enforce Florida law,” DeSantis, a Republican, said on May 30 in reference to a bill he signed earlier this month prohibiting passport-type systems.
Some cruise lines, which conduct a large amount of business in Florida, may be at risk of violating state law after Celebrity Cruises gained approval from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to require that cruise passengers and crew members show proof of vaccination.
Going a step further, DeSantis said Celebrity Cruises would be breaking Florida law if it attempted to require that passengers show proof of vaccination against COVID-19. The Florida state legislature passed Senate Bill 2006, banning passport-like systems being implemented in Florida in early May.
“You don’t pass laws and then not enforce them against giant corporations. It doesn’t work that way,” DeSantis said on May 28.
After the CDC shut down cruise operators last year during the pandemic, the federal health agency said cruises can resume under more stringent guidelines.
DeSantis said that the agency, however, “does not have the authority” to shut down cruise lines.
Despite statements from the governor, Celebrity Cruises—a subsidiary of cruise giant Royal Caribbean—said through a spokesperson that they’ll proceed with their plans and will require people to show proof of vaccination.
“We are working to finalize our health and safety measures for cruises departing from U.S. ports, including Florida, in collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as local authorities in the U.S. and destinations we visit,” Celebrity Cruise spokesperson Susan Lomax told USA Today.
“Our commitment to sail with fully vaccinated crew members and guests still stands as it is a meaningful layer to ensure we make every effort to help keep safe our guests, crew, and the communities we visit.”
Vaccine passports have been criticized by DeSantis, other Republicans, and civil liberties groups for potentially creating a two-tiered society consisting of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. Another concern, raised by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and pro-privacy groups, highlights that health agencies and private companies would be able to more easily gain access to the health records of U.S. citizens, potentially violating the 1996 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
The federal government has shown little interest in creating or enforcing a passport-type system. After Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas told ABC News on May 28 that there’s some consideration of implementing such a system for airplane travelers, a White House press secretary told reporters later in the day that the administration has not “moved our stance” on the issue.~Consumers Should Be Warned About China’s Rebranded Hikvision Cameras
Commentary
A soldier, kneeling on a mountainside, tested a Hikvision drone-jamming rifle in March. Hikvision’s website carried a report, based on a joint study with weapons experts and commanders of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), detailing how its technology could add functionality to China’s tanks, missiles, and artillery.
According to surveillance technology experts IP Video Market (IPVM), Hikvision “advertised dozens of machine-learning jobs at a military police base in Xinjiang, which banned Uyghurs from applying.”
When The Wall Street Journal contacted Hikvision for comment recently, “the report was taken down from Hikvision’s website for several days this month,” according to the Journal. A Hikvision spokesman told the Journal, “Not now, and not ever, has Hikvision conducted research and development work for Chinese military applications.” As should be clear from the above, that’s a lie. And, the company is deeply linked to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and state apparatus, which is inextricably networked with its military.
Hikvision, founded in 2001, has its headquarters in Hangzhou, China. It employs more than 42,000 people, has annual revenues of almost $10 billion, and a market capitalization of $96 billion. It grew from a Chinese government lab. Hikvision’s largest shareholder is a subsidiary of China Electronics Technology Group Corp (CETC), a state-owned conglomerate.
Some Hikvision cameras can see through fog and pollution, and have night vision, heat map, artificial intelligence, and license-, facial-, and behavior-recognition technologies. Some are explosion-proof, mounted on drones or the undercarriages of vehicles for their surveillance, or alert authorities to large crowds or protests. One is equipped with microphones to automatically zero in on noise in its vicinity.
The Department of Homeland Security flagged Hikvision for a cybersecurity loophole in 2017 that made approximately 200 camera models easily accessible to hackers. Up to tens of millions were shipped, according to an estimate by IPVM.
Yet, the United States is full of Hikvision products, including security cameras for use in businesses, residences, and by police departments. Hikvision sells its rebranded products through U.S. distributors, meaning that many buyers have no idea they are purchasing from an insecure Chinese company.
Not only do Hikvision cameras surveil the United States and its allies, but the company hires Americans and Canadians for its research and development. Two such offices opened in Montreal and Silicon Valley in 2017. Local politicians trying to increase jobs in their communities probably didn’t complain much when Hikvision dangled plans to hire 800 workers in North America by 2022. We sure do sell ourselves cheap.
While the U.S. General Services Administration removed Hikvision from its $66 billion in procurement offerings to the U.S. government in 2017, and a U.S. military base removed Hikvision cameras from a Missouri military base recently, it’s unclear whether or not the cameras continue in other sensitive locations.
The Memphis, Tennessee, police used them for street surveillance, and Hikvision cameras watched over electronics in the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, until IPVM discovered and published the U.S. procurement order. Apparently, government purchasers hadn’t notified State Department security officials, and our Indymedia is doing a better job than the federal government of finding (and thus encouraging the stripping out of) China’s wiring in our sensitive government installations.
If the United States wants good cybersecurity against China, our government is going to have to step up its game. The same applies to our allies, as Hikvision is the world’s biggest supplier of video surveillance equipment globally. French airports, an Irish port, and sites in Iran and Brazil used Hikvision. In 2016, Hikvision purchased Britain’s Pyronix, an intrusion-alarm specialist, for just 16 million euros. Hikvision’s global market share of surveillance equipment grew to 21.4 percent in 2016 from 8 percent in 2012.
Picture of Hikvision cameras in an electronic mall in Beijing on May 24, 2019. (Fred Dufour/AFP via Getty Images)
Hikvision’s largest shareholder is Hong Kong billionaire Gong Hongjia, and some of its executives are Communist Party members whom CETC, Hikvision’s main state-owned shareholder, also employs. Gong provided capital for Hikvision’s founding, along with a government-backed lab that initially took a 51 percent controlling share. The company gets huge Chinese government contracts to surveil cities and events, including $1.2 billion worth of “safe city” contracts in Chongqing, population 31 million. Do you feel safer as a result? I don’t.
In 2017, Hikvision’s Pu Shiliang held dual leadership positions as both the company’s head of research and as a leader in a Hangzhou lab run by China’s police force, the Ministry of Public Security. The goal of China’s increasing surveillance state is to identify lawbreakers and influence behavior; Hikvision is its enabler.
The U.S. Defense Department no longer purchases from Hikvision and designated the company on its military list, preventing Americans from investing in its securities. A 2018 law bars the U.S. government from purchasing goods and services from the company, and the Commerce Department blacklisted Hikvision and other Chinese AI companies in 2019. But as Hikvision products continue to creep into our homes and businesses through rebranding, these reforms don’t go far enough.
The 18th-century British philosopher Jeremy Bentham, who designed a “panopticon” in which a single guard could surveil an entire prison ranged in a circle around him, would have recognized present-day China as the dystopian development of his prison reform, applied to those outside the prison walls. China today is that reverse panopticon, in which the intellectual prison of the CCP surveils the world.
If Hikvision can lie about its ties to the Chinese military, other conglomerates from China can, too. Huawei, Xiaomi, TikTok, Zoom, Alibaba, and State Grid are all China-linked technology companies that branch into our homes, businesses, and even government offices. As they can rebrand their products and components for sale in our public and private spaces, consumers and government procurement experts aren’t always aware that with their uninformed consumer choices, they may be opening the door to China’s police state.
That should change, with mandated warning labels on all technology products that include components or software from China. The U.S. and allied governments must take a tougher stand against China’s Big Tech to ensure our privacy, cybersecurity, and the future of democracy.
Anders Corr has a B.A./M.A. in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The Risks and Rewards for Democrats of Running on Trump Hatred
Commentary
“With Policies Failing, Democrats Turn to Trump-Hate,” wrote Conrad Black in these pages the other day. And as inflation, in particular, is only likely to get worse between now and next year’s mid-term elections, it will be more and more necessary for the Democrats to stick to Trump-bashing as the only possible distraction from their own failures.
Among the other failing policies mentioned by Lord Black are the chaos on the border, which Biden spokesfolks continue, ever more implausibly, to deny, as well as bad employment numbers, rising crime rates, continued fear-mongering over the coronavirus, insouciance over the ransomware attack on the Colonial pipeline by Russian hackers, and the politicization of school curricula with “woke” orthodoxies about race or “transgender” politics.
And then there’s also the ever more evident anti-Semitism among Democrats elicited by the Hamas-sponsored rocket attack on Israel.
That’s an awful lot of pretty obviously bad stuff for them to try to distract voters from with Trump hatred, especially as the former president won’t be on the ballot next year. Yet it’s certainly not beyond the realm of possibility that the continued demonization of Donald Trump can also continue to turn voters out to vote against his party, particularly if he himself is willing to cooperate in the effort.
For on the other side of that particular coin, so far as Republicans are concerned, is the problem of getting their voters plus a fair number of persuadables to concentrate on Democratic failures and forget about Trump—especially about his grievance against the Democrats over the stolen election—when the former President himself and his grievance alike seem determined not to be forgotten.
Though substantial numbers of Americans still believe that the election was stolen, and many of them feel passionately about it, a majority do not, which makes any decision to campaign on this issue in the mid-terms an almost certain loser for Republicans.
Of course, it’s just possible that Trump himself may know this and decide to campaign, unselfishly, with fellow Republicans against Democratic failures instead.
Blogger Mickey Kaus dismisses this possibility. “Even if GOP candidates don’t make Trump an issue in the midterms,” he writes, “and the Democratic candidates don’t make Trump an issue in the midterms, Trump will make Trump an issue in the midterms. Everything we know about the man says he’ll gravitate to wherever the media spotlight is and make it all about himself — it’s like a law of physics at this point, without the Uncertainty Principle.”
Kaus goes on to write that the problem for Republicans will be compounded if Trump or one or more of his business associates is indicted on a criminal charge, as it now seems possible if not likely with the convening of a grand jury by the Manhattan district attorney.
“If Trump is indicted in New York, or anywhere, that will only make his 2022 lunge for the limelight all the more inevitable, as he seeks to counter the bad publicity, make his case, and blast prosecutors for targeting an active political player for partisan reasons.”
That may be true, but I wonder if Donald Trump the unfairly harassed and persecuted former President isn’t more of an unknown political quantity than Donald Trump the putatively sore loser.
An indictment by a Democratic prosecutor in the run-up to the election, especially in the context of all the other failed attempts by Democrats to prove charges of wrong-doing against someone they obviously hate so much, risks creating sympathy for him among the persuadables and even more motivation to turn out among the true believers in Trumpism.
The situation would then be the reverse of that obtaining with any attempt to re-litigate the 2020 election. The Democrat true believers would then be on board but the persuadables might be more likely to lean toward the party of Trump if its figurehead is being pursued with obscure tax charges by an obviously politically motivated prosecutor.
At any rate, it is by no means certain that the hounding of President Trump nearly two years into his post-presidency will not backfire on the Democrats and make their use of him as a distraction from their own record in government even more obvious than it already must be.
At the very least it will rescue him from the irrelevancy that, by making him more subject to their ridicule than their hatred, could be as much their friend as it is the friend of those Republicans who privately wish he would just go away.
Conrad Black believes that, “at this point the administration looks like a melting iceberg, turning in the desperation of their failure at governing, back to the only tactic that has worked for them: the malicious character assassination of the former president. It is unlikely that will work again.”
I might put the chances of its working at closer to 50-50 myself, but if I were on the DNC, or in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, I think I just might conclude that the risks of bringing Trump front-and-center in the 2022 campaign outweigh the potential benefits—unless, of course, things get so bad that the Trump card is the only one left for them to play.
I’m not sure we haven’t arrived at that point already.
James Bowman is a resident scholar at the Ethics and Public Policy Center. The author of “Honor: A History,” Bowman is a movie critic for The American Spectator and the media critic for the New Criterion.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The CCP Monopoly Behind the Chinese Ultramarathon Tragedies
Commentary
Twenty-one people running a mountain ultramarathon in northwestern China died after extreme weather conditions hit the high-altitude race, the Chinese communist regime announced on May 23.
The 100-kilometer (62-mile) mountain race was being held on May 22 in the Yellow River Stone Forest tourist site of Baiyin city in Gansu Province, when it was hit by hail, freezing rain, and gale-force winds that caused as many as 21 deaths out of a total of 172 participants. Liang Jing, a well-known runner who had won a 62-mile race in Ningbo, and Huang Guanjun, the marathon champion for hearing-impaired runners at China’s 2019 National Paralympic Games, were among those who died.
Gansu and Yunnan Marathon Deaths
Just within the first week of this month, two other separate marathon deaths were reported. On May 5, a senior executive of a Shanghai-based corporation suffered a sudden cardiac arrest and passed away while running a desert marathon held in Guazhou of Gansu Province, according to Chinese social media Weibo. On May 6, a runner named Yang Lijie died in another mountain ultramarathon in Zhaotong city of Yunnan Province, Chinese news portal Sohu reported.
At least 15 marathons were held in China during this year’s May holidays, from May 1 to May 5, according to Chinese news portal NetEase. And within one week before that, there were more marathons in Beijing on April 24 with about 10,000 participants and Huai’an of Jiangsu Province on April 19.
In addition, “Run China,” a national annual marathon series co-organized by the Chinese Athletic Association (CAA) and CCTV state-run media, has enrolled a total number of 24 selected events spanning cities in China so far this year, according to the state-run media Xinhua.
In retrospect, marathons were originally a kind of niche event, but have become hugely popular in China since 2010, except for 2020 due to the epidemic. An official document released by the CAA called “2019 China Marathon Blue Book” shows that the number of participants in marathon races reached over 7 million in 2019, while the number of marathon-related races increased from 13 in 2010 to 1,828 in 2019, a stunning 140-fold surge, according to Chinese news portal Sina.
Marathon races have been blooming across China in recent years, spawning an entire domestic marathon industry worth tens of billions of dollars. Although most domestic marathons can rely on the sponsors’ fees to run the races, race operators can further generate revenue by collecting registration fees from ordinary runners. Depending on the length of a particular race, the fees varied from $12.00 to $37.00 in 2018. In 2019, registration fees alone may have generated hundreds of millions of dollars. The total annual domestic marathon industry output reached $11.4 billion in 2018 and continues to rise, according to a report by the CAA.
A marathon event is profitable for the event operator and brings big business to the hosting city to boost the local economy, including its restaurant, tourism, and retail sectors. Take the city of Xiamen, in southeast China’s Fujian Province, for example, statistics show that the Xiamen Marathon boosted city business revenues by more than $92 million in 2017, according to Sina.
So it is easy to understand why city governments across China are keen to hold marathon events.
A runner is taking part in the Guizhou Tour of Leigong Mountain 100km International Marathon in Danzhai in China’s southwestern Guizhou Province, on Nov. 17, 2019. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
CCP Monopoly
Unlike marathons held in other countries, those that take place in China are all under the control of Beijing and local authorities of the Chinese communist regime, which means that it is not easy for private businesses to get a slice of the big pie, which keeps on getting even bigger.
As far as the central authorities are concerned, the state-run CAA still controls most of the events as the official organizer. For example, as part of a joint venture with the CAA, China Olympic Road Race Sports Management has been not only responsible for hosting the annual Beijing Marathon but also has obtained the operation rights to local large-scale marathon events, such as the Huai’an Marathon held in April this year, which had a winning bid of $1.22 million.
However, local authorities can also become the organizers of the races, which are operated by companies or organizations that are either controlled by or have close ties with the local authorities.
For example, the recent Gansu ultramarathon was organized by the municipal government of Baiyin, Gansu Province, and hosted by Jingtai county. The event was operated by Gansu Shengjing, a company that undertakes many local government projects.
On May 23, at a press conference, Zhang Xuchen, Baiyin city Party Committee Deputy Secretary and Baiyin mayor, classified the incident as a public safety issue—caused by a sudden change in local weather.
Although the Chinese media generally believes the extreme weather could not have been avoided, it failed to hold the organizer accountable for not taking precautions to ensure the runners’ safety. With such a high number of casualties, the race could be passed off as a natural disaster caused by extreme weather, but in fact, it was a man-made disaster caused by the extreme negligence of the organizer.
More people were killed in the mountain ultramarathon than in the recent earthquake that hit the region. Critics accused Baiyin authorities of extreme negligence because they should have valued human lives by spending more money to strengthen safety measures, or they simply should have canceled the race based on weather forecasts. A close friend of Huang said, “He was deaf and dumb and couldn’t even call for help.”
Speaking of the marathon organizers and hosts that have disregarded the safety and health of the participants, Beijing officials have to be held accountable.
As a most recent example, on May 23, the Beijing Meteorological Bureau issued a warning for hazy and dusty weather in most areas, with a minimum visibility of only 2 to 3 miles. However, the Beijing Marathon still started on the same day, with tens of thousands of runners participating under hazardous conditions.
In 2014, at an international marathon in Beijing, the PM2.5 scale, which measures the number of micrograms of particulate matter per cubic meter, went up to a whopping 344, as compared to the 25 micrograms considered to be healthy by the World Health Organization. Tens of thousands of participants had to wear gas masks, braving the choking smog that again blanketed the capital. Chinese netizens criticized the organizer for insisting on holding the race without postponing it despite knowing the hazy forecast and completely ignoring the hazards to the runners’ health. Some frustrated runners called it a “smog-athon.”
The Chinese communist regime is the driving force behind the national marathon rush in China, and the so-called marathon economy is a monopolistic business—from the state-run CAA down to all local governments. However, as some domestic media have said, the profit and money-driven behavior that comes with it has deviated from the original purpose of the marathon, which was originally aimed at promoting health. The poor safety standards and sudden deaths are just the tip of the iceberg in the chaos of the nationwide marathon rush.
Chen Simin is a freelance writer who often analyzes China’s current affairs. She has contributed to The Epoch Times since 2011.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Researchers Discover Remarkable 1,600-Year-Old Mosaic From Byzantine Age in Israel
Archaeologists carrying out excavations on a site prior to a new neighborhood development in Yavne, in Israel, recently discovered a well-preserved ancient mosaic.
The mosaic, which displays colorful geometric motifs in a black rectangular frame, was discovered by Israel Antiquities Authority researchers, led by Avishag Reiss.
The find dates back to the Byzantine period, during the Fourth to Fifth Centuries
The ancient mosaic floor discovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
An overhead view of the dig site in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Archaeologists have been carrying out large-scale excavations in Yavne, in collaboration with the Israel Land Authority, as part of the city’s development program.
The mosaic was amazingly well preserved and is suspected to have been part of a luxurious residential building in a wealthy area.
It is the first such colored mosaic floor to be found in Yavne, in an industrial area, said Elie Haddad, director of the excavation, of the Israel Antiquities Authority.
The ancient floor was found coated with a white patina (gloss or film), a the result of the find’s age, which led them to believe, initially, that the floor was a simple paving.
Detail of the impressive 1,600-year-old mosaic uncovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Detail of the ancient mosaic motif. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
“At first, we did not realize that the floor is multicolored,” said Haddad in a statement. “We assumed that it was a simple white paving belonging to yet another industrial installation.
“But black patches dotted around the mosaic suggested that it was more than one color and prompted us to remove the whitish patina that had coated it for years.”
The conservation director applied a special acid to the artwork with a brush to remove the patina, and to their surprise, a colorful mosaic ornamented with geometric motifs was revealed.
Such mosaics are unusual in industrial areas, and this one could indicate the possibility of more residential remains, said Haddad.
A wide-angle shot of the dig site and surrounding areas. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
After the mosaic was documented, drawn, and photographed, Israel Antiquities Authority officials transferred it to their workshop at the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem for treatment and preservation by experts.
The Israel Antiquities Authority, in collaboration with the Yavne municipality and Israel Land Authority, intends to make the mosaic available for viewing by the public and has identified a strategic location to place it.
The Yavne municipality, which focuses on making archaeology accessible to the town’s residents, is currently planning the infrastructure for the mosaic display, which will be placed in the plaza near Yavne’s cultural center.
An aerial view of the excavation site. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Preservation and relocation for the ancient floor will be carried out using ancient technological methods and materials similar to those used in antiquity for the sake of cultural authenticity.
“I am happy that the mosaic will be displayed in a central location in the city, so that the values embodied in its heritage are preserved and made accessible to the general public,” said Diego Barkan, from the Israel Antiquities Authority, in the statement.
Yavne mayor, Zvi Gur-Ari, emphasized the importance of culture preservation in the current age for the sake of future generations.
“Archaeological preservation and awareness of the past are important values in the city of Yavne, which has a magnificent history,” he said. “Future generations should also be able to see how the city evolved throughout history.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~New Math Policies Would Hurt Gifted Students
Commentary
Perhaps Alan Erisman, who headed a team of applied mathematicians at Boeing, sums up the education of numbers best.
Erisman, author of the upcoming book “The Math Myth,” says, “If we taught English the way we teach math, students would spend all their time doing spelling tests and diagramming sentences but never read a great book or ever read poetry.”
That seems to be one of the issues the California’s Instructional Quality Commission is seeking to address as it updates its list of suggestions to math instructors. It’s seeking to determine how to help students reach the math standards established by the state.
Williamson Evers, former U.S. assistant secretary of education for planning, evaluation, and policy development, said the commission may have overstepped its original position. Evers, now a senior fellow at the Oakland, California-based Independent Institute, wrote an opinion piece about the matter to expose the issue.
In his Wall Street Journal article, Evers said the new framework would no longer aim to have students learn algebra by Grade 8, which is necessary for students to get to calculus by Grade 12 and satisfy a basic requirement of many selective colleges.
The original proposed framework also rejected the idea of tracking, whereby students are grouped according to mathematical skill. Tracking has proved to be beneficial, especially for high-achieving students.
Perhaps most damning of all, the original proposal called eight times for the state to follow the suggestions of the Pathway to Equitable Math Instruction: Resources and Guidance to support Black, LatinX, and Multilingual Students to thrive in grades 6-8.
That document originally stated: “The concept of mathematics being purely objective is unequivocally false,” and that “Upholding the idea that there are always right and wrong answers perpetuates ‘objectivity.’”
In a later conversation with The Epoch Times, Evers said that the guidelines as originally promulgated were “not fair to California students” and “would deny them the opportunity to flourish according to their special talent.”
Indeed, he said, “it is very destructive to people with special gifts in math.”
Since the time of Evers’s op-ed piece, the framework no longer calls for the use of that so-called “pathway” document, and the document itself no longer attacks the idea of objectivity.
Francis Su, author of the book Mathematics for Human Flourishing and math instructor at Harvey-Mudd college in Claremont, California, agrees with Erisman.
He said many teachers focus too much on just rote memorization rather than helping students see all the ways math gets applied in the real world. He noted that one of the things the new proposed framework gets right is that there is not just one way to solve a problem and that as long as students get to the correct answer, teachers should not necessarily temper the creative thinking of those who can get to the correct answer using a method other than the one prescribed.
There is in math instruction the concept of “standard algorithms,” which some might call the “right” way to solve a problem but which could be more correctly termed the “standard” way of solving that particular kind of equation.
Standard algorithms are taught because they’re the most succinct way to get to a solution.
And one of the many goals of math instruction is to help students develop as many standard algorithms as possible so that when they encounter a new math problem in real life, they have a large set of mathematical tools to draw from to solve the problem.
Math professor Su is quick to note that whether balancing a checkbook, calculating how much seed to buy for a lawn, or trying to get the next spacecraft to Mars, people use math every day.
He told The Epoch Times that proponents of tracking are usually focused on the high achievers and not wanting them to be held back.
The proponents want those high-achieving students to thrive and have all the opportunities to which their proclivities for math might take them.
On the other hand, opponents of tracking are often focused on students in the lower tracks and are focused more on social justice or concerns for the poor.
People are often surprised to learn that students in the lower tracks often get the most inexperienced teachers and are often taught with the worst methods in non-enriching environments.
In a speech he gave when he stepped down as head of the Mathematical Association of America, Su challenged his colleagues by asking how many of them actually want to teach lower-track students.
If done correctly, math instruction can be done in such a way that allows each student to achieve his or her highest and best level of success.
When The Epoch Times spoke to Evers, he said that if done incorrectly, “California public schools would risk losing their best math students to charter schools, parochial schools, and other private schools” that wouldn’t be hobbled by guidelines constraining the best in math education.
During the most recent comment period, some 1,200 letters were sent with about one-quarter opposed both to the use of the so-called “pathway” and to any reference of race in math instruction. As such, those references seem to have been removed.
After California’s Department of Education and the Instructional Quality Commission revise the recommendations, there will be another 60 day review period during June and July when the public can again make its comments known.
Tim Shaler is a professional investor and economist based in Southern California. He is a regular columnist for The Epoch Times, where he exclusively provides some of his original economic analysis.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Is Europe Changing Its Strategy Toward China?
Commentary
The answer might be yes—and no. The European Parliament’s May 20 resolution freezing any consideration of a long-awaited Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) with China, along with advocacy of a strengthened European Union screening regulations on foreign investment and increased cooperation with the United States on a Transatlantic Dialogue on China, certainly seemed to symbolize a changed European attitude toward China.
Undoubtedly, European leaders have become more wary than those who met with members of a visiting U.S. congressional commission two decades ago. Warned by commissioners against lifting an embargo on arms sales that had been passed after the massacre in Tiananmen Square, they replied stoutly and virtually in unison that China “is not the same country that it was in 1989.” They dismissed evidence that, although China was incontestably not the same country that it had been in 1989, it was in fact more repressive than it had been, and was getting more so.
Both Eurocrats and politicians seemed intrigued by the notion of strategic partnerships that China held forth, denying that they had any military implications, even when shown that the ideograph for the first character in strategic “戰略,” shows a man holding a spear. Possibly their receptivity had something to do with Beijing’s hints at the prospect of lucrative deals for purchases of the wares of European defense contractors as well as the hordes of Chinese tourists eager to visit the continent’s castles, cathedrals, and department stores. Interestingly, the Western European states who had never lived under communism were the most trusting of Chinese promises whereas the Eastern European states, which had, were far more skeptical.
Fast forward twenty years and the picture changes dramatically. Not overnight, to be sure, but incrementally in rough proportion to increases in Chinese assertiveness. Enthusiasm for lifting the arms embargo waned after China’s National People’s Congress in 2005 passed an anti-secession law formally asserting Beijing’s determination to use non-peaceful means against the separation of Taiwan from China and in any scenario where unification [read: annexation] became otherwise impossible. So as well did China’s moves to enforce its claims to contested areas of the South China and East China seas as seen in its outright rejection of the 2016 ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) that China’s nine-dash line had no basis in international law, and its willingness to use force, as it did against Vietnam in 2020. Revelations about the treatment of Muslim minorities in Xinjiang, and the steady diminution of the rights of residents of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region that had been guaranteed under a 1984 treaty between Great Britain and China made it difficult to believe that Beijing cared about the rights of its peoples and international law. Or that post-1989 China was evolving toward the kind of liberal democratic state that European leaders had seemed so confident of.
An aerial photo taken though a glass window of a Philippine military plane shows the alleged on-going land reclamation by China on Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea, west of Palawan, Philippines, on May 11, 2015. (Ritchie B. Tongo/Pool/Reuters)
Reports on the suppression of religion and the persecution of believers were widely reported, but had few policy consequences. It was not so much that Europeans did not care about human rights issues as that they were eclipsed by concerns with the lure of a rapidly expanding Chinese market and their desire to get a larger share of it for themselves and their countries, often in competition with other European states.
There was no lack of awareness that China was negotiating with European countries one deal at a time, skillfully playing one against another, but also no consensus about what to do about it. French President Jacques Chirac declared 2004 the Year of China and bathed the Eiffel Tower in red for visiting counterpart Hu Jintao, with lucrative business deals signed during the latter’s four-day stay. And after German Chancellor Angela Merkel met with the Dalai Lama in 2007, she was criticized for jeopardizing German business opportunities in their rivalry with France.
Most European states welcomed Xi Jinping’s signature “One Belt, One Road” (OBOR, later renamed the “Belt and Road Initiative”) project that would facilitate Sino-European trade. Enthusiasm cooled markedly when it was discovered that too many of the railway cars that brought Chinese goods to Europe were being shipped back empty: a rueful quip was that OBOR should be renamed OBOW: One Belt, One Way. In addition, it was noticed that European companies had slipped in global rankings even as Chinese companies like State Grid and Sinopec climbed into Fortune’s top ten.
With its 28, now 27, members, the European Union, finds it difficult to reach an agreement on most issues, let alone ones as contentious as dealing with China. Until the 2021 decision on CAI, the results tended to be tepid. Maritime law expert Peter Dutton deemed the EU statement on the PCA’s decision on the nine-dash line, a “deeply disappointing statement from a government that likes to consider itself one of humanity’s strongest supporters of international law. They could have … and should have … said they support the tribunal’s decision. Period.”
China was also able to take advantage of economic downturns in the Euro economy to acquire strategically important assets at low prices. China’s State Grid Corporation began acquiring stakes in the power networks of cash-strapped southern European countries, including Portugal, Spain, Greece, and Italy, raising concerns that Beijing might exercise control of their operations. In response to a query by Reuters, a State Grid official replied, “This is not a financial investment, [it’s] more like a strategic investment.”
When chided by the EU for allowing Chinese shipping company COSCO to acquire rights in Piraeus, Greek officials responded angrily that the EU had done little to help their country in its hour of need and that they would welcome more investment from China. COSCO now has a 67 percent stake in Piraeus, one of the largest ports in the Mediterranean and strategically situated close to the Suez Canal. The Chinese-Greek partnership has had consequences for EU decision-making, as when Greece refused to sign an EU letter on the South China Sea and, later, on China’s alleged torture of detained human rights lawyers. Hungary, where China had pledged to spend billions of dollars on a railway project, likewise declined to sign. Concerns grew that China could be targeting smaller countries with weaker economies in order to penetrate the region. And, when in 2012 China set up the 16 (later 17)+1 partnership with central and eastern European states, EU leaders fretted that this was a mechanism to try to divide Europe.
A view of old warehouses in the port of Piraeus which will be transformed to five-star hotels, on Oct. 18, 2018. Chinese shipping giant Cosco said it has ambitious plans for the Greek port of Piraeus, including a boost on already-bustling container and car piers but also five-star hotel expansion. (Louisa Gouliamaki/AFP via Getty Images)
Chinese interests were not confined to penurious southern and eastern European states. German firms specializing in engineering and technology were prime targets for acquisition. In 2016, news that China’s Midea group planned to acquire cutting-edge robotics firm Kuka raised anxieties about loss of intellectual property. However, Chancellor Merkel declined to intervene, making Kuka essentially a Chinese company despite charges that German engineers were now designing robots for the People’s Liberation Army (Chinese military).
Vigilance, however, had been heightened. Shortly after the Kuka purchase, Germany’s economics ministry withdrew its earlier approval of chipmaker Aixtron by China’s Fujian Grand Chip Investment Fund LP, with Chinese officials accusing Germany of protectionism. Although German sources gave as their reason the lack of reciprocity in their dealings with China—which is true—the underlying issue was security. For example, Aixtron’s new, highly efficient semiconductor technology are able to boost the power of military radar transmitters while consuming less electricity. Not all concerns were economic: Berlin-based scholar journalist Didi Kirsten Tatlow’s meticulously documented study of China’s Einheitsfront (united front) operations, concluded that Beijing’s deliberate influencing in an orchestrated manner cannot be ignored, and that most Germans underestimate the CCP’s (Chinese Communist Party) will to power.
Similar revelations occurred in Britain bringing to an end what both sides called the “golden era” of bilateral relations, especially when, shortly after leaving office, former Prime Minister David Cameron accepted the headship of a fund to create new investment links between China and the UK. Security concerns were raised about Chinese participation in the UK’s Hinkley Point nuclear power station. News of the persecution of Uyghurs and the crackdown on pro-democracy Hong Kong residents deepened concerns, with Hong Kong being a particularly sensitive issue in Great Britain since it violated the 1984 treaty under which the UK agreed to return its colony to Chinese jurisdiction. These were exacerbated when the Chinese Foreign Ministry announced that the agreement “no longer has any practical significance and is not at all binding for the central government’s management over Hong Kong.”
Civil liberties not only in China but in the UK itself also began to be threatened with incidents such as Chinese students at the London School of Economics, likely acting on suggestions from their embassy, demanding that an LSE globe depicting Taiwan as separate from China be altered. The Chinese Embassy then threatened Oxford University’s Vice-chancellor Louise Richardson with the withdrawal of Chinese students unless she stopped Chancellor Chris Patten from visiting Hong Kong. Both efforts were unsuccessful: LSE’s globe remains unaltered and Richardson refused the embassy’s request. Patten subsequently said that “China had betrayed the people of Hong Kong and the West should cease kowtowing to Beijing for an illusory pot of gold.” And a February 2021 study of academic cooperation with Chinese entities found many UK universities “unintentionally generating research that is sponsored by China’s military conglomerates including those with activities in the production of weapons of mass destruction, intercontinental ballistic missiles, hypersonic missiles, and other items of massively destabilizing weaponry.”
Oxford University in Oxford, United Kingdom, on Sept. 20, 2016. (Carl Court/Getty Images)
Similarly high-handed statements from Chinese official sources occurred elsewhere. When meeting pushback, they tended to elicit insults. The ambassador to Sweden, reacting to its government’s complaints about the arrest of one of its nationals and, separately, evidence that an incident of Chinese tourists being bullied was fabricated, declared that his country had fine wines for its friends but shotguns for its enemies. Replying to widespread criticism of his words, the ambassador responded that Sweden was “not important enough to threaten.” After a French scholar defended the rights of parliamentarians to visit Taiwan, tweets from the Chinese embassy called him a “little hoodlum,” “ideological troll,” and “mad hyena.” When Lithuanian intelligence services accused China of increasingly aggressive espionage campaigns and the use of tech companies as surveillance assets, the Chinese ambassador countered that his country was being demonized and charged Lithuania with cold war-ism. Eighteen months later, Lithuania’s foreign minister announced his country’s withdrawal from the 17+ 1 organization and called on the other member states to do the same.
The EU’s tepid statement on Beijing’s rejection of the PCA ruling on the South China Sea did not diminish the concerns of nations with major shipping interests in the area. Britain and France announced plans to send naval vessels to emphasize the importance they attached to freedom of navigation in the area. France, which has geographically extensive territories in the South Pacific, was particularly articulate on this issue. After the ruling, then-defense minister Jean-Yves Le Drian called for joint EU patrols of the maritime areas of Asia and the establishment of a “regular and visible presence there” and, with China clearly in mind, Le Drian argued that if the rule of law and freedom of navigation were not respected in the South China Sea today, they will next be challenged in and around Europe. More surprising than the British and French FONOPs was Germany’s decision, although it has no territories in the area, to send a frigate to the area as part of a newly-adopted Indo-Pacific strategy.
What does this mean for the future of Sino-European relations? Unquestionably, attitudes in major EU countries have hardened. In Germany, the Green party’s candidate for chancellor, the Greens having a realistic chance to become the ruling party in the country’s September election, has vowed to be tough on China. The smaller Free Democratic Party, which has a reputation of being a kingmaker, has pointedly removed the “one-China” clause from its party platform. Britain has banned Chinese telecommunications provider Huawei from its 5G networks, offered UK passports to British National Overseas residents of Hong Kong, revoked state-owned broadcaster CGTN’s UK broadcast license, and expelled three Chinese for spying. In Czechia, attempts to build influence in politics backfired and there was discontent when a number of promised investments failed to materialize. The Czech senate president visited Taipei in defiance of Chinese orders and declared “I am Taiwanese;” Prague’s mayor publicly refused to accept a “one-China” clause and flies Tibetan flags from city hall.
Prague City Mayor Zdeněk Hřib talks to media about China during his visit to Taiwan on March 29, 2019. (Zdeněk Hřib, Mayor of Prague/Facebook)
Yet it would be foolish to overinterpret these events. China is defiant, with the Global Times editorializing that the conditions imposed for resuming the ratification process are “rough and arrogant,” that the sanctions imposed by China are actually countermeasures against the EU’s sanctions over Chinese officials and entities, and that there is no way that China will lift those sanctions under pressure from the European parliament. EU organizations other than the EP and many more European countries, the paper pointed out, want the CAI to come into force.
Global Times may well be correct. The CAI was, and presumably continues to be, a major priority for Chancellor Merkel because of China’s importance to the German automobile industry: if ratified, it would allow European companies to own majority stakes in their Chinese subsidiaries rather than forcing them to operate though joint venture with Chinese partners and share trade secrets. China is Germany’s largest trading partner.
In less wealthy countries, the lure of Chinese largesse is a powerful force for leaders even where there is opposition from the general public. Czech president Milos Zeman, who has been described as “ostentatiously pro-China,” has vowed to make his country China’s gateway to Europe, even welcoming Xi Jinping with a 21-gun salute—an honor not accorded to any foreign leader for more than fifty years. Most recently, he praised China as “the only country that helped us and sent medical supplies” in the pandemic. In Serbia, although complaints about the environmental and political aspects of Chinese investment grew, its elected leaders, despite their aspiration to join the EU and claims to share its democratic values, lean further toward China, which offers big loans, vaccines, and investments without the constraints that the EU would impose. Mutatis mutandis, there is a similar situation in Montenegro, whose government has asked Brussels for financial assistance to refinance a loan to China for an expensive only partially built highway that, according to European analysts, was a risky proposition to start with. China holds a quarter of Montenegro’s debt; if it defaults, the terms of the contract give China the right to access the country’s land as collateral.
It is also possible that the EU sanctions themselves may end up hurting Western companies as much or more than China. Beijing has imposed boycotts on companies such as Sweden’s H&M, among others, for its “suicidal” remarks on so-called slave labor in Xinjiang, thereby impacting an important market for the apparel maker. A Xinjiang factory manager, admitting an initial downturn in international purchases of cotton, stated that his factory had made up the difference by shifting to domestic orders.
In sum, European strategy toward China has evolved beyond the so-called golden years, and present tensions are unlikely to abate in the foreseeable future. With the emotional naivete of the past now spent, European statespersons would do well to concentrate on the realistic economic and security aspects of the relationship. Given the democratic principles that undergird both Eurogovernance and those of Europe’s component states, Beijing will always have the upper hand in playing one off against another. How long this can continue depends on many factors outside the scope of this study. Meanwhile, however, the EU’s dream of a partnership between a united Europe and a liberalizing China seems to have fallen victim to Xi Jinping’s China Dream.
June Teufel Dreyer is a professor of politics at the University of Miami, a senior fellow of the Foreign Policy Research Institute, a faculty adviser to the Rumsfeld Foundation, and a former commissioner of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. Dr. Dreyer has authored several books on China’s ethnic minorities, China’s political system, China-Taiwan relations, and Sino-Japanese relations.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~President Joe Biden departs the White House via the North Portico, in Washington on May 28, 2021. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
US Under Biden Is Neither Feared Nor Respected
Commentary
China refuses to talk with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and it shows that Joe Biden’s America is neither feared nor respected.
Neither Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe nor Beijing’s Central Military Commission Vice Chairman Xu Qiliang, who is close to Chinese Communist Party (CCP) boss Xi Jinping, will take Austin’s call.
It shows that the Chinese view themselves as the side with power. Reading in-between the lines of an article that appeared on the CCP propaganda site The Global Times, the response seems to suggest that Beijing believes it can obtain concessions from Washington by holding out. By desperately chasing Beijing, the Biden administration has chosen to posture against China from a position of weakness.
The Global Times said:
“The US is now releasing inaccurate information through the press and is attempting to shift the blame to China for the fact that no high-level military talks have taken place so far. This is irresponsible. The source noted that as long as the US can abide by this principle, communication and talks are wide open at all levels between the Chinese and US militaries. The US always wants to get along with China from an advantageous position, setting preconditions for military-to-military relations, while China always stresses that mutual respect and mutual benefit in cooperation are the way to go in bilateral relations, the source said.”
“Mutual respect” and “mutual benefit in cooperation” to China means doing everything China’s way and on China’s terms. It doesn’t mean getting the CCP to end its territorial claims to the South China Sea or belligerency toward Taiwan, Vietnam, or the Philippines.
The Chinese clearly have the upper hand. North Korea’s leadership similarly ignored a Biden administration request to talk.
As Sun-Tzu said in “The Art of War,” “By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near.”
American and Chinese naval forces have played a game of cat and mouse in recent months to Beijing’s irritation. China protested the recent passage of the American destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur through the Taiwan Strait. The Biden administration has continued the Trump administration’s policy of sending U.S. warships through the disputed waterways despite Chinese protests, particularly in the disputed Taiwan Strait, Spratly, and Paracel islands.
Don’t think that China hasn’t watched as President Joe Biden and his administration have conceded time after time following tough talk since January. First, the Biden administration promised that it would not end sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program. Then Biden recklessly decided to pursue re-entering the Iran nuclear deal without any leverage over Tehran, not unlike his support for the failed SALT II nuclear arms control treaty with the Soviet Union 40 years ago.
With regard to Russia, Biden started off his term agreeing to let Vladimir Putin continue his nuclear modernization program and pledge of a first-use option with his tactical nuclear weapons in the event of a war between Russia and NATO in the Baltics or Poland. Then he flip-flopped on whether or not he would uphold President Donald Trump’s sanctions on the Nordstream 2 pipeline that further cements German dependence on Russia for natural gas. He did all of this despite having spent the entire 2020 campaign attacking former President Trump as “Putin’s puppy.”
Had Trump done what Biden has done, the current president and his supporters would have accused the former president of being a “traitor.”
Trump bombed Russian mercenaries in Syria that threatened U.S. interests. Now Russia appears to be in Syria to stay and is now basing its deadly Tu-22M3 Backfire bombers there, and there’s scant word from the Biden administration about this development. The Soviet Union developed the Backfire during the Cold War with the aim of sinking U.S. aircraft carriers. They’re a direct threat to the U.S. Sixth Fleet, not just to Syrian jihadists who are opposed to the Assad regime.
A former senior U.S. diplomat who I spoke with, who worked with the Chinese, told me that this brinksmanship on China’s part is all about getting Biden to cave. There’s no doubt that Beijing sees a chance to get Biden to concede in areas where Beijing seeks dominance in East Asia based on what it’s seen from his performance as president.
I warned that Biden would pre-emptively surrender to the nation’s enemies in December. Four months of the Biden presidency have proven my instincts to have been correct. Thus far, Biden has:
Caved to Russia on nuclear weapons and the NordStream 2 pipeline;
Given Iran a blank check to foster terrorism and disrupt the peace in Yemen, Iraq, Israel, and Syria;
And worked to get Iran back into the violated nuclear deal, ignoring the fact that the country that has consistently violated every agreement it’s ever signed.
We saw that the Biden team isn’t up to the job when the Chinese foreign minister and his wolf-warrior diplomats lectured Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his team about supposed American human-rights violations in Anchorage in March. Instead of rising to the challenge, Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan backed down and apologized.
The United States must return to a posture of strength and increase its military support for Taiwan, Japan, India, and Australia. It should consider deploying intermediate-range nuclear missiles (IRBMs) to the Aleutians to threaten China.
And it must increase the freedom of navigation patrols until the Chinese are forced to the point of irritation to talk. The same goes for dealing with Moscow and backing Ukraine, the Baltics, and NATO’s Eastern European allies.
Diplomacy without power leads to war and surrender.
The world saw what happened when power-hungry dictators are appeased following the 1938 Munich Conference and “peace in our time.” Incompetence in confronting Hitler led to my family in the Vosges Mountains of Eastern France spending four years under Nazi occupation even though the French army had been regarded as the strongest in Europe on paper.
Hitler would have been finished had the French retaliated against the Nazis for militarizing the Ruhr Valley in 1935 and pressed the attack into Germany in 1939.
Appeasement causes more deaths every time.
John Rossomando is a senior analyst for defense policy at the Center for Security Policy and served as senior analyst for counterterrorism at The Investigative Project on Terrorism for eight years.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Americans Remain Patriotic
Commentary
Despite every effort of the “woke” left and its allies in the left-wing news media, most Americans remain proud of our country and value patriotism.
The greatest dangers facing the Democrats in 2022 and 2024 are their radical wing’s constant outbursts of public anti-Americanism and their woke efforts to coerce Americans into accepting ideas they don’t believe—and, in some cases, deeply repudiate.
Despite everything you see in the woke-radical left-dominated media, Americans remain remarkably traditional in how they see themselves and how they value patriotism.
McLaughlin & Associates did a survey for a Gingrich 360 project we are working on, and the results were far more definite than the left-wing media would lead you to expect.
Consider the following survey results.
The left constantly uses divisive language and tries to force Americans to assume tribal identities along racial or ethnic lines rather than favor a shared national identity. Regardless, 87 percent of Americans see themselves primarily as Americans, while only 8 percent see themselves primarily as persons of color. Blacks see themselves as Americans by a 66 percent to 28 percent margin. Hispanics are 76 percent to 17 percent pro-American identity. Specifically, among immigrant households, 85 percent consider themselves American and only 11 percent consider themselves persons of color.
So, the next time you hear some left-wing figure promoting racial or tribal identity over a united American identity, remember they are talking to one-tenth of the country and are rejected by 85 percent of the country.
While the left is attacking America, our history, and our institutions, more than three in four Americans (78 percent) agree that the United States is the greatest country on earth. Only 19 percent disagree. Interestingly, immigrant households are 79 percent to 18 percent in agreement that the United States being the greatest nation on earth.
While the left focuses on anti-American distortions of history and diatribes against the United States, three out of four Americans (75 percent) also agree that America is the freest and most democratic country on the planet. This is true for black Americans (64 percent), Hispanic Americans (72), and immigrant households (77 percent).
After all the ranting about systemic racism, critical race theory, and other efforts to get people to think in terms of tribal divisiveness, the American ideal remains unifying and oriented toward individuals rather than groups.
In fact, by 91 percent to 5 percent, Americans agree with the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. that the content of a person’s character is more important than the color of his or her skin.
This remarkably consistent support of the American people for a positive view of America is a warning to the left: If you persist in being the racist, negative, divisive party that is trying to use the government and societal elitism to force tribal identities upon the American people, you will be rejected by massive majorities.
Americans do not accept your warped and destructive repudiation of America.
From Gingrich360.com.
Newt Gingrich, a Republican, served as House speaker from 1995 to 1999 and ran as a presidential candidate in 2012.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Left-leaning academics once championed ideological diversity, for that was the route to disseminate and legitimize their own views. Now that they have captured the university, viewpoint diversity is perceived as dangerous. (Spiroview Inc/Shutterstock)
At University, Ideological Dissent Is Not Welcome
Commentary
Lisa Keogh, a law student at Abertay University in Dundee, Scotland, was attending an online class when she was asked to express her opinion. The question was, what is a woman? In a BBC interview on May 18, Keogh said that because of her answer—that women have female reproductive organs—the university is investigating her for discrimination. Depending upon the outcome, she may face disciplinary action.
At modern universities, ideological dissent is unwelcome.
In a study released in March, Eric Kaufmann, a politics professor at the University of London, quantified the intolerance. The academy, of course, overwhelmingly leans to the left. In some departments, the ideological spectrum spans from moderately progressive to over-the-cliff neo-Marxist critical race theorist.
Kaufmann surveyed thousands of academics across North America and Britain and found that a significant proportion discriminate against conservatives in hiring, promotion, grants, and publications. Well over half of the relatively few right-leaning academics perceived a hostile work environment and acknowledged self-censoring in research and teaching. Particularly in social sciences and humanities, where “political views are manifest in people’s work and there is a lopsided political skew,” Kaufmann wrote, “the result is a discriminatory effect against conservatives and other intellectual minorities.”
Universities once imagined that they were engaged in a search for truth. Variety in ideological and philosophical perspectives is essential to that mission. Discovery is possible when it is safe to question orthodoxy in an environment of open inquiry. Setting competing views against each other generates ideas and exposes errors.
One of John Stuart Mill’s most revered passages reads, “He who knows only his own side of the case knows little of that. His reasons may be good, and no one may have been able to refute them. But if he is equally unable to refute the reasons on the opposite side, if he does not so much as know what they are, he has no ground for preferring either opinion …. Nor is it enough that he should hear the opinions of adversaries from his own teachers, presented as they state them, and accompanied by what they offer as refutations. He must be able to hear them from persons who actually believe them … he must know them in their most plausible and persuasive form.”
In 2016, Jonathan Haidt, a professor of psychology and ethics at New York University’s Stern School of Business, argued that at many universities, the search for truth has been replaced by a quest for social justice. These two missions are incompatible, Haidt wrote: “At Truth U, there is no such thing as blasphemy. Bad ideas get refuted, not punished. But at SJU, there are many blasphemy laws — there are ideas, theories, facts, and authors that one cannot use.” The patron saint of social justice universities, according to Haidt, is not John Stuart Mill but Karl Marx, who wrote, “The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways; the point is to change it.” Our universities are now dedicated less to dispassionate investigation than to political activism.
The previous year, Haidt and two colleagues, concerned that a lack of ideological diversity was having a negative impact on the quality of research in their disciplines, put together a website and blog, called Heterodox Academy, as a place for social science academics to discuss challenges inside their universities. HxA, as it is known, has since grown into an international, non-partisan organization of over 5,000 professors, administrators, and students whose mission is to promote viewpoint diversity and constructive disagreement as the foundations of the academic enterprise. Its vision, as expressed on its website, is “an academy eager to welcome professors, students, and speakers who approach problems and questions from different points of view.” As its tagline says, “Great minds don’t always think alike.”
Modern universities rarely embrace this vision. Instead, their strategic plans and mission statements typically identify a set of political values and goals such as equity, diversity, and inclusion. “Diversity” means variation in skin colour, not in ideas. Ideological diversity is anathema to these causes. Left-leaning academics once championed ideological diversity, for that was the route to disseminate and legitimize their own views. Now that they have captured the university, viewpoint diversity is perceived as dangerous.
At my law school, our faculty board recently rejected by a vote of 33 to 4 a proposal to add viewpoint diversity as a value and goal to its strategic plan. Viewpoint diversity, along with HxA itself, was said to be an “alt-right ploy” that might weaponize those who do not agree that society should be transformed in accordance with the values expressed in the plan.
Viewpoint diversity is not the same thing as “academic freedom.” Academic freedom means that faculty members can express their views without interference or censure. Viewpoint diversity means that the institution aspires to variety in philosophical and ideological perspectives. Academic freedom does not produce viewpoint diversity if most academics are already singing the same song. Universities can safely endorse academic freedom as an important institutional value without endangering the status quo. Commitment to viewpoint diversity, on the other hand, threatens the prevailing consensus because it might oblige universities to hire new professors of conservative, classically liberal, and/or libertarian persuasions.
The alternative to viewpoint diversity is an academic culture of homogeneity and conformity. Universities have become political institutions that prefer fidelity to the prevailing ideological view. Students who seek education rather than indoctrination should beware.
Bruce Pardy is professor of law at Queen’s University, and a member of the Heterodox Academy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks to members of Congress during a hearing in Washington on March 18, 2021. (Susan Walsh/Pool/Getty Images)
Will the Madness of 2020 Last?
Commentary
The COVID-19 pandemic is ending with mass vaccinations. So is the national quarantine. The rioting, looting, and arson that began in the summer of 2020 is finally sputtering out.
The acrimony over the 2020 election is fading. Trump Derangement Syndrome became abstract when Donald Trump left office and was ostracized from social media.
In other words, the American people are slowly regaining their senses after the epidemic of mass hysteria that gripped the nation last year.
But many Americans wonder whether what Antifa, Black Lives Matter, and the hard left wrought last year will last when the nation is no longer gripped by 2020 madness.
Teachers and academics are notorious for furious opposition to administrative bloat. For the last 50 years, administrations have proliferated while the ratio of non-teachers to teachers has skyrocketed—much to the chagrin of teachers’ unions.
But in the last year, colleges have gone mad in hiring thousands of “diversity, equity, and inclusion” administrators. Their job descriptions may be vague, but they certainly won’t contribute to classroom education. Instead, they’ll monitor the speech and actions of those who do.
How long will mostly left-wing teachers’ unions continue to support such vast diversions of money to armies of new non-teaching administrators?
Before 2020, the left demanded “proportional representation” in hiring and admissions. And if minority groups and women weren’t represented in the workplace according to their percentages of the American population, then prejudice was automatically assumed, and reparatory measures were then taken to hire by race and gender.
“Affirmative action” was the euphemism for such quotas. It was more or less institutionalized because proportional representation wasn’t entirely illogical in a multiracial society, and there was still the common goal to follow Martin Luther King Jr.’s notion of integration and assimilation to make race incidental, not essential, to who Americans are.
Not now. The foundations of the new woke race agenda are mostly anti-white. African American Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot recently decided not to grant interviews to white reporters. The city of Oakland’s entitlement payouts, like those of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, are designed not to be distributed to white people.
A number of black intellectuals now openly envision American life segregated from whites. The Nation’s Elie Mystal envisions his life as “whiteness-free.” Damon Young, senior editor of The Root and occasional New York Times contributor, claims, “Whiteness is a public health crisis. It shortens life expectancies.” And Barnard College English instructor Ben Philippe recently wrote a novel envisioning the mass gassing and blowing up of white people.
Such hatred has never been condemned by Black Lives Matter or other civil rights groups. When the country returns to life after COVID-19, will such venom still be tolerated?
For that matter, will the media be able to get away with not covering attacks on Jews in major cities by mostly pro-Hamas or Arab American youth?
Before 2020, the American people had tired of media farces such as the demonization of the Duke lacrosse team, the lies about the Covington Catholic High School kids, and the Jussie Smollett hoax about an attack by white racists. Will Americans return to their earlier skepticism when it increasingly seems as if the media and the government mostly misled them when denying the possibility that COVID-19 leaked from a Wuhan lab engaged in the engineering of dangerous viruses?
Will people still believe that “armed insurrectionists” planned a Jan. 6 coup? As the hysteria fades, we are learning there were no arms anywhere. No one has been charged with treason, conspiracy, or insurrection. There are no conspiracy kingpins in custody.
By the end of the year, will the media-hungry Dr. Anthony Fauci still be a national icon, as the country finally adds up his contradictory communiqués that were constantly changing and often flat-out wrong?
From March 2020 to spring of 2021, the country went through a mass hysteria. Despite its ideological pretensions, the collective insanity was not unlike the Tulip mania in early 17th-century Holland or the June bug epidemic paranoia of 1962.
But as Americans sober up, will they institutionalize or reject the frenzy remaining from the destructive stampede that took the country over the cliff during the most unhinged year in American history?
Victor Davis Hanson is a conservative commentator, classicist, and military historian. He is a professor of classics emeritus at California State University, a senior fellow in classics and military history at Stanford University, a fellow of Hillsdale College, and a distinguished fellow of the Center for American Greatness. Hanson has written 16 books, including “The Western Way of War,” “Fields Without Dreams,” and “The Case for Trump.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A golfer tees off at Loch March Golf and Country Club in Ottawa on May 22, 2021, as golf courses and other outdoor recreation facilities reopen in Ontario. (The Canadian Press/Justin Tang)
Why the Pandemic Played Out Differently Across the Developed World
Commentary
Perhaps the most noteworthy feature of the pandemic is that there was no uniform pattern of impact across advanced countries. The pandemic unfolded differently in each developed country, and governments that spent more did not as a rule more successfully contain the virus or better maintain their economies.
From the first reports of a pneumonia of unknown origin in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic grew and spread around the world, with massive impacts on health, mortality rates, economies, and government budgets. Currently, the global tally is nearly 165 million cases and 3.5 million deaths. With the spread of new variants and differential rates of vaccination around the world, the effects of the pandemic will continue to reverberate worldwide.
However, we can already learn from this pandemic to help shape responses to future outbreaks.
Many people, including policymakers, view the pandemic as unprecedented or surprising, but only because the technological and economic progress of the 21st century—and resulting high living standards—has caused many to lose historical perspective. Plague and pestilence have been part of the human experience since the start of recorded history. Pandemics have happened before and will happen again. Nevertheless, many countries were caught unprepared for COVID-19.
Moreover, the pandemic did not strike everyone simultaneously, and even with additional time, some advanced countries seemed unable to heed warning signs and act quickly to implement proactive measures. Despite our instantaneous 21st-century communication and information dissemination, many countries seemingly had to experience their own pandemic before taking the matter seriously—even countries that experienced past viral outbreaks such as SARS.
As such, the pandemic’s effects were surprisingly severe in developed countries. For example, the International Monetary Fund’s advanced economies, which comprise only 18 percent of all countries, in 2020 accounted for 40 percent of the 30 countries with the highest COVID-19 deaths per million (although the older populations of advanced countries were a key factor in initial death tolls).
In the absence of vaccines or effective treatments, the world’s first year of the pandemic response unfolded more like a medieval plague or the Spanish flu. Control efforts consisted largely of face-masking, quarantines, lockdowns, and physical distancing. In the end, unlike the Black Death, it was not the deaths from COVID-19 per se that devastated economies, but rather the restrictions and stringent measures imposed by government to reduce spread. Lockdowns, quarantines, and travel restrictions disrupted global supply chains and had severe economic impacts on the international travel industry, labour-intensive services, food and accommodation, tourism, and the arts and entertainment sectors. Indeed, a one unit increase in the Oxford Stringency Index, which tracks government policy responses to the pandemic based on data from more than 180 countries, was associated with an approximate percentage point drop in real GDP growth of 0.1 percent.
Moreover, as noted in a new study published by the Fraser Institute, prolonged levels of stringent government restrictions did not significantly reduce COVID-19 case counts or deaths per million. On the plus side, high rates of testing helped control mortality rates, with each additional 100,000 tests per million associated with 21 fewer COVID-19 deaths per million. And again, countries with larger elderly populations experienced higher COVID-19 mortality rates.
Crucially, the number of hospital beds played a key role. Internationally, each additional hospital bed (per 1,000 people) was associated with 31.5 fewer COVID-19 deaths per million. Even among advanced countries, there are substantial variations in bed numbers. In 2020, hospital beds per 1,000 ranged from highs of 13.1 in Japan, 12.2 in South Korea and 8.0 in Germany to lows of 2.5 in Canada and Denmark, 2.4 in Singapore and 2.2 in Sweden.
In the end, though all countries experienced the pandemic, its intensity and severity varied as did the economic impact, and there wasn’t always a direct linear relationship between the intensity of the disease and the economic and fiscal impact. Indeed, countries with governments that spent more did not necessarily experience a better outcome in either maintaining their economies or containing the virus.
Clearly, how each country chose to play the cards they were dealt was an important determinant of the health and economic impacts reported during the pandemic’s first year.
Livio Di Matteo is professor of economics at Lakehead University and senior fellow at the Fraser Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Programming Alert: Shen Yun to Showcase Lost Techniques of Classic Chinese Dance in Video Premiere
Premier classical Chinese dance company Shen Yun Performing Arts will showcase lost techniques of classic Chinese dance in a video premiere at 8:00 p.m. ET on Monday, May 31.
The video can be preordered online on Shen Yun’s newly launched on-demand video streaming platform at: ShenYunCreations.com.
Founded in 2006 in New York by a group of artists originally from China, Shen Yun states that its mission is to revive 5,000 years of divinely inspired Chinese culture and share it with the world through the universal languages of music and dance.
While China has a long and rich history, much has been lost as a result of deliberate efforts by China’s communist regime to destroy it. During the Cultural Revolution in the 60s and 70s, temples were razed, books were burned, and artists, intellectuals, and members of religious institutions were imprisoned or killed in a systemic effort to destroy the traditional culture.
It is also for this reason that Shen Yun is unable to perform in China. Around the world, however, its performances have become a cultural phenomenon with performances each year in some 20 different countries and 150 cities.
At the core of Shen Yun performances is classical Chinese dance, an ancient art form with a history of thousands of years. Classical Chinese dance, martial arts, and operatic dance have similar movements and postures, also known as shen-fa in Chinese, which have likewise been passed down for millennia, according to an introduction on the Shen Yun Creations website.
The highest achievement of shen-fa is shen-dai-shou (the body leads the arms). However, no one knew how to do it or even truly understood how to apply it before Mr. D.F., the founder and artistic and creative director of Shen Yun Performing Arts, imparted this method.
“Shen-dai-shou is also a method that has been persistently sought after by all kinds of dance forms and physical performing arts,” reads the introduction. “It is a dance technique that people have been searching for since ancient times, something people have talked about but no one can do—it is the highest realm of artistic expression through physical movement. The founder, Artistic and Creative Director of Shen Yun Performing Arts, Mr. D.F., is the one who imparted this method. Shen-fa, moreover, also has the even better method of ‘kua-dai-tui’ (the hips lead the legs), which modern people have not even heard about—an entirely lost art form. Having benefited from Mr. D.F.’s personal instruction in this method, Shen Yun now presents it to the public.”
People can watch more Shen Yun dance showcase videos, Shen Yun Symphony Orchestra concerts, vocal music, dance instructional videos, concertos, and more never-before-published content on ShenYunCreations.~Chinese dredging vessels are purportedly seen in the waters around Fiery Cross Reef in the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea, in this still image from video taken by a P-8A Poseidon surveillance aircraft provided by the United States Navy, on May 21, 2015. (U.S. Navy/Handout via Reuters/File Photo)
China’s Sand Dredgers Are Eating Into Taiwan, Vietnam, Philippines: US Coast Guard Should Step Up
Commentary
China’s sand dredgers have destroyed thousands of square kilometers of ocean floor in order to build sand islands on which they put military runways and docking facilities for submarines and aircraft carriers. The construction of a single such Chinese island, Mischief Reef (5.6 square kilometers) on Philippine maritime territory, impacted 1,200 square kilometers with plumes of sediment that smothered life on the ocean floor. This implies that the approximately 12.9 square kilometers that China created in the exclusive economic zones (EEZ) of the Philippines and Vietnam since 2013 impacted approximately 2,785 square kilometers of ocean floor.
But what did all those dredgers do after they completed the islands? Some of them may now be eating away at the Philippines and Taiwan, if recent reports from the Financial Times (FT) and CNN are any indication.
Some of the about 220 Chinese vessels reported by the Philippine Coast Guard, and believed to be manned by Chinese maritime militia personnel, are pictured at Whitsun Reef, South China Sea, on March 7, 2021. (Philippine Coast Guard/National Task Force-West Philippine Sea/Handout via Reuters)
When the wind is still, a “deep rumbling” can be heard in the Matsu islands of Taiwan, according to a May 27 Financial Times article. The rumbling is from China’s dredgers, illegally taking sand from beneath the waves, and destroying marine habitat in the process. The Taiwan Coast Guard sometimes uses water cannons to expel them. In April alone, the Coast Guard expelled 59 illegal sand dredgers and transport vessels from around Matsu, just 10 kilometers from China’s Fujian Province. The dredgers cut Matsu’s undersea telecommunication cables, including internet, six times in 2020. The 736 residents on Xiju Island lost connectivity each time.
Were the incidents a prelude to an attack from the mainland, or an “accident” caused by neglectful marine authorities in China? Taipei was alarmed, and didn’t know, according to a Taiwanese official who spoke to the FT. Perhaps the incidents served as a test to see what Taiwan would do if they are someday cut on purpose.
One dredger, in a single day, can vacuum enough sand to fill three Olympic swimming pools and sell the haul for $55,000. But the dredging vacuums coral and living creatures too. As a side-effect of the dredging, huge plumes of underwater debris blanket and kill marine life over thousands of square kilometers. The living creatures down the food chain that feed fish are wiped out.
Taiwan’s fishermen suffer, and beaches are receding, according to the FT. A local official said, “Matsu used to be a fishing paradise, with waters brimming with diverse species of fish and shellfish. The dredgers have devastated the marine ecology. Our fishermen now struggle to make a living from the sea.”
Beijing outlaws such environmental destruction near its own shores, pushing dredgers out to neighbors in what Su Tzu-yun at the Institute for National Defense and Security Research in Taiwan calls “grey-zone tactics” and “psychological warfare.” Taiwan’s Coast Guard does not have the capacity to enforce its own laws against Chinese ships. Of the hundreds of Chinese ships in Taiwan waters at the worst point of 2020, the Coast Guard only managed to confiscate two.
Enforcement against Chinese dredgers in Taiwan’s waters poses a dilemma. As explained by a Taiwan politician, “We’re allowing the destruction of our environment if we do nothing. Still, if we respond with military force to crack down on civilian dredgers, then it could give China a pretext to further escalate tensions in the Taiwan Strait.”
Taiwan needs the muscle of the U.S. Coast Guard, backed by the U.S. Navy, if it hopes to stop China’s marine incursions against its outlying islands.
Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-Wen waves to assembled guests from the deck of the ‘Ming Chuan’ frigate during a ceremony to commission two Perry-class guided missile frigates from the United States into the Taiwan Navy, in the southern port of Kaohsiung on Nov. 8, 2018. (Chris Stowers/AFP/Getty Images)
Not content with Taiwan and the approximately 2,785 square kilometers of Philippine and Vietnamese EEZ that China already destroyed to build military bases, China is now allegedly using dredgers on Philippine rivers and coastline, and carting away black sand for use to make iron and steel. It is unclear whether China’s dredgers have legal rights to do so.
According to Chamber of Mines executive director Ronald Recidoro, “Lumalabas na [It appears] the contractor is helping by dredging the river, pero bakit kina-cart out yung buhangin? [but why does the contractor cart out black sand?] When you dredge, you just put it aside.” He noted that currently Manila has no oversight function on magnetite black sand mining.
China’s black sand mining, according to a lawmaker from the Ilocos region, is “massive” on the Philippine coast of the South China Sea. China’s miners are using “heavy” equipment to extract the mineral, and “barges” to ship it out of the country. The lawmaker claims that the Luzon shoreline is receding as a result.
The Philippine lawmakers want to respond with a ban on the export of raw black sand in order to support pre-processing in the Philippines that would create local jobs.
President Rodrigo Duterte’s Department of Trade and Industry pointed out that such limitations could violate World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. This indicates a need for WTO rule exceptions for strategic industries like steel, local job creation, and against aggressive countries such as China. The apparent Duterte administration acquiescence to China’s locally-destructive mining indicates that his administration is far too accommodating of China given its threat of war against the Philippines. Such appeasement might be explained by China’s alleged corruption of the President through business deals involving his close associates.
Protesters rally against China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea in front of the Chinese Consulate in Makati, Philippines, on July 12, 2016. Philippines brought the case to Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague to challenge China’s actions and claims in the South China Sea, which was ruled decisively in favor of the Philippines in July 2016. (Dondi Tawatao/Getty Images)
The Philippine people must vote Duterte out of office if they want to retake control of their sovereignty from Beijing. And, the Philippine Coast Guard, backed by the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Navy if necessary, should expel China’s illegal occupation and dredging of Philippine maritime territory. The same goes for China’s incursions against Vietnam and Taiwan’s fishing industry and beaches.
Confronting Beijing is admittedly risky, but no less is required to stop the regime from continuing its expansion. Bullying doesn’t stop until someone stands up against the bully.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A Test for the Nation in Virginia Governor’s Race
Commentary
Americans may not have to wait until 2022 to sense the potential for Republicans to move the nation back in a conservative direction.
The race for governor in Virginia, one of just two major elections taking place this year, could be a barometer of national sentiment.
Republicans have just nominated a dream-team ticket, combining talent and achievement with all the diversity demands of today’s political marketplace.
The nominee is investor/businessman Glenn Youngkin, who campaigned for his party’s nomination as a “conservative, Christian outsider.” Youngkin is a wealthy man who was co-CEO of the highly respected investment firm The Carlyle Group.
On the ticket for lieutenant governor is former Marine Winsome Sears, a conservative black woman and immigrant from Jamaica.
Running for attorney general is Jason S. Miyares, a member of the state legislature and son of a Cuban immigrant.
This conservative ticket—pro-Second Amendment gun rights, pro-family, pro-life, promoting growth through lower taxes and less regulation—advertises the truth those on the left wish to muzzle: that the conservative values that built America are not “white values” but universally true American values.
The state of Virginia is an appropriate laboratory for this test because Virginia is a poster child for the maladies of our nation.
Virginia was for years a solid red state. Virginians voted for Republicans in every presidential election from 1952 through 2004, with the exception of 1964. It has picked Democrats in every election since—2008, 2012, 2016 and 2020.
What’s happening?
The population growth of the state has been in northern Virginia, which is basically a suburb of Washington, D.C. From 2010 to 2019, according to University of Virginia research, northern Virginia accounted for 66.5 percent of the state’s population growth.
Per Washington Post reporting of a 2017 study from Old Dominion University: “Virginia’s fortunes are more tied to the federal budget than those of perhaps any other state. Almost 30 percent of Virginia’s gross domestic product—its total output of goods and services—is directly related to federal spending.”
Given that government is increasingly the meal ticket for northern Virginians, it should be no surprise that Democrats—the party of big government—are increasingly becoming the party of Virginia.
In 2020, Joe Biden won 51.3 percent of the vote nationwide, and Donald Trump won 46.8 percent. In Virginia, Biden got 54.1 percent and Trump 44 percent.
Even among white voters nationwide, Biden got 41 percent and Trump 58 percent. But in Virginia, Biden won 45 percent of white voters and Trump won 53 percent.
In northern Virginia’s Fairfax County, with a median household income of $124,831, 70.4 percent of the vote went for Biden and 28.2 percent for Trump.
As more Virginians benefit from the largesse of profligate government, they increasingly turn to Democrats, who promote this government meal ticket while advancing policies that are destroying our country.
The inflation that many have been worried about, due to excessive government spending producing record deficits and debt, is beginning to show itself in the marketplace.
Recent Census Bureau reports showing historically low birth rates mean there is an aging population—a direct result of the collapse of family and an increase in pro-abortion attitudes and policies.
What is happening in Virginia points to the same trend nationally: more citizens getting government money and thus getting behind policies that are destroying our country.
Leadership can turn things around.
This dream-team Republican ticket in Virginia must run on principles and patriotism and against the moral and fiscal profligacy that is taking us down the path to moral and fiscal bankruptcy.
Virginia’s Hispanic population has grown substantially in recent years and is now an electoral force. Hispanics are the nation’s youngest demographic. They should be particularly sensitive to policies that jeopardize our future.
Sanctity of life, sanctity of family, and sanctity of ownership and markets is what Virginia and America needs for a future. For this, America needs Republicans.
Star Parker is the founder and president of the Center for Urban Renewal and Education (CURE) and host of the new weekly news talk show “Cure America with Star Parker.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~New York City firefighters salute in front of a memorial on the side of a firehouse adjacent to One World Trade Center and the 9/11 Memorial site during ceremonies on the 18th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York on Sept. 11, 2019. (Craig Ruttle/AP Photo)
9/11 Plus 20: Lessons Not Learned
How 19 Islamic terrorists entered the United States with 'relative ease'
Commentary
“When these attacks occur, as they likely will, we will wonder what more we could have done to stop them.”
That was National Counterterrorism Coordinator Richard Clarke, in a May 29, 2001 memo to National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice and her deputy Stephen Hadley. The statement, which warned that “hundreds” of Americans might be killed, may be found in “The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States,” published in 2004.
“It is perhaps obvious to state that terrorists cannot plan and carry out attacks in the United States if they are unable to enter the country.” That is from the introduction to “9/11 and Terrorist Travel: Staff Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.” This document was released separately from Commission report. As the staff report shows, by this time 20 years ago, the al Qaeda team “demonstrated the relative ease of obtaining a U.S. visa and gaining admission into the United States.”
The hijackers began to acquire U.S. visas in April 1999, two years and five months before the attack. Consular officers had no information about fraudulent travel stamps that are associated with al Qaeda, and were not trained in terrorist travel tactics.
Three hijackers were known as al Qaeda terrorists in early 2000, but their biographical information was not communicated to border authorities for watch listing at U.S. consulates and the border. The hijackers successfully entered the United States 33 of 34 times, with the first arriving on Jan. 15, 2000, at Los Angeles International Airport. All others entered through airports on the East Coast, including 11 entries through New York area airports and 12 through Florida airports.
The terrorists included 14 “muscle hijackers,” trained to gain entry to the cockpit and subdue passengers. Tourist visas guaranteed them six months of legal stay, more than enough for Sept. 11, 2001. The six-month tourist stays also assured the hijackers of sufficient time to obtain identification to board the planes on 9/11. Fourteen of 15 operatives, and all of the pilots, easily acquired one or multiple forms of U.S. state-issued identification.
The staff report charts terrorist operations such as the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. Terrorist Ramzi Yousef and Ahmad Ajaj traveled under aliases using fraudulent documents American officials failed to discover. The terrorists primary tool for remaining in the United States was “immigration fraud,” such as the “bogus political asylum stories” concocted by Ajaj and Yousef, mastermind of the 1993 operation. Others simply overstayed their visas.
Those visas were issued by the State Department, which in some cases speeded up the process and approved incomplete applications. The reasons for these visa policies in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Germany “have never been adequately explained” but as Terrorist Travel notes, “with its reputation as a friend of foreigners, State was an easy target.”
The Immigration and Naturalization Service had little contact with the intelligence community, so information on terrorists failed to reach the Border Patrol, which also lacked access to the terrorist watchlist. More than two years after 9/11, many immigration inspectors had never been interviewed by the FBI or DOJ and many remained unaware that they had admitted a hijacker.
Smoke pours from the twin towers of the World Trade Center after they were hit by two hijacked airliners in a terrorist attack in New York City on Sept. 11, 2001. (Robert Giroux/Getty Images)
Prior to 9/11, the Terrorist Travel report notes, “no agency of the U.S. government thought of border security as a tool in the counterterrorism arsenal.” Indeed, even after the 9/11 hijackers easily gained admission, “border security still is not considered a cornerstone of national security policy.” Commission staff believed “it must be made one,” but it wasn’t.
For years, Americans were told the nation harbored 11 million illegals, but according to scholars at Yale and MIT, the true number may exceed 22 million, more than the populations of Romania, 19,237,691; Chile, 19,116,201, and Sri Lanka, with 21,214,349 people. Those illegally present are called “undocumented.” But to remain in the United States requires the use of false documents, immigration fraud, and bogus political asylum stories—the same tactics deployed by the 9/11 terrorists.
The conventional wisdom in Washington is that the preferred destination for refugees, particularly from the Middle East, is the United States, rather than other countries in the region. Likewise, Central Americans are encouraged to come to the United States rather than Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia or even Cuba, which has a population of only 11,236,616.
Former President Donald Trump made some effort to tighten the border and deport violent criminal illegals. Those efforts are now being reversed by President Joe Biden, on record that illegals are “already Americans.” With the border and rule of law effectively canceled, the “migrants” stream in by the thousands, from countries all over the world. American officials cannot verify their true identity and have no clue of their intentions.
If legal immigrants and legitimate citizens have a problem with this policy, then it would be hard to blame them. The same goes for anyone who lost a father, mother, son, daughter or friend on Sept. 11, 2001.
Before 9/11, border security was not considered a cornerstone of national security. Nearly 20 years later it still isn’t, and the conditions that prevailed now exist on a wider scale. To paraphrase Richard Clarke, when these attacks occur, as they likely will, American officials will know why they failed to stop them.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Do You Have His Medals?
Commentary
He was six-foot-four-inches tall. Born May 11, 1919, in Houston, Texas, Harold Johnson would have been a giant among the English during World War II. This American war hero gave his medals to a little boy who sat next to him on a train on the first leg of his journey home from England. He completed 40 missions navigating B-24 bombers over Germany and France. That was the ticket home for U.S. Army Air Corps flyers. He died in a tragic road accident on June 11, 1951, leaving his wife and three young daughters without their father. His now grown children would like to find that little English boy.
To learn more about her father’s war service, Mary Lou Johnson Ridinger recently toured the 390th Memorial Museum in Tucson, Arizona. Mary Lou and her late husband Jay George Ridinger rediscovered Mayan jade in the jungles of Guatemala 40 years ago. Tall, blonde, and Texan Mary Lou makes the same impression on diminutive Guatemalans her father must have made on the English decades before.
Mary Lou described how the Johnsons got to Texas, saying great-grandfather Peter Johnson emigrated from Denmark in 1870. He landed in Galveston. That was the port of entry for Danish ships.
“There were a lot of Danish immigrants in Texas. Towns had newspapers printed in Danish and Norwegian. Great-grandfather likely was a farmer. Grandfather Fred Johnson was a Houston city slicker who married Florence Smith from Texas. I have a feeling my grandmother invented her own first name, Florence, Florence Smith. Smith is the most common name in America, Smith and Johnson,” Mary Lou reminisced. Although she lost her father when she was only a young girl, Mary Lou has vivid memories of her dad after he returned from the war.
The family moved to New Mexico when Mary Lou was 2 years old. Mary Lou remembers that her father took them out hunting Indian artifacts. They lived in Albuquerque. The family had an old Spanish ranch near Pecos, New Mexico. “We were only there May through September because of the snow,” Mary Lou explained, the family tale warmed with memories of her father.
“I got to sit on the front fender of the car to open gates. I fell off once. I was about four, four-and-a-half. It was a rich fantasy life for me and my sister Georgie. There was Cow Creek. We had Treasure Island. The water was only one-foot deep but we were sure we were explorers. We’d go to Lookout Point or Treasure Island. The ranch had five cabins. My sister and I have a lot of fond memories.”
Top-Left: Lt. Harold Johnson stands with Air Corps friends. Center-Left: Lt. Johnson during World War II. Bottom-Left: Lt. Johnson (C) stands with friends in November 1942. Top-Right: Lt. Johnson (L) in North Africa in 1943. Bottom-Right: Lt. Johnson (Front-Center) is seen in Norwich, England, in 1944. (Courtesy of Mary Lou Ridinger)
For Mary Lou and her sister Georgeann, called Georgie, their memories of dad ended too soon. Their little sister Christina was only 1 ¾ years old when their father was killed in a tragic automobile crash.
“Dad taught me how to ride a bike about a week before he died. We lived in Albuquerque. My sister and I had a room in the attic of the farm. Dad read to us every night. Dad went to law school. He got his law degree one-week before he died. He was 31 years old.”
Every family has memories. Cherished moments that remain. Pictures that linger. Thoughts that seem long forgotten that go away then return at odd times and in different ways. After his return from service, Harold Johnson studied law at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. He would sit in a big wing chair. Mary Lou and her sister Georgie perched on the wings of the chair above his head. They brushed his hair while he studied.
Johnson had to quit the University of Texas to enlist for military service in the fall of 1942. He was in flight training when he married on Feb. 12, 1943. After the ceremony, the 23-year-old cadet got on a train to return to flight training in Tucson with the U.S. Army Air Corps. Mary Lou says the choice of the Air Corps may have been because his new brother-in-law and best friend was a flight instructor in Tucson.
It didn’t work out as planned. Johnson washed out of flight school. “He was on his way to becoming a pilot when he pissed off his flight instructor. He then took training to become a navigator. He was sent to North Africa. The Allies had the Germans on the run by then and dad was shipped to Norwich, England a month later,” Mary Lou related.
Describing their visit to the 390th Bomb Group museum in Tucson, Mary Lou says, “When we saw the navigator’s seat on the B-24 in the 390th Museum, it was facing backwards in front of the pilot and co-pilot. On one mission dad got up to talk to the pilot. When he came back his seat was blown to bits.”
Top-Left: Lt. Harold Johnson poses with his wife, Betty. (Courtesy of Mary Lou Ridinger) Top-Right: Mary Lou Ridinger holds a photograph of her family. Her father, Lt. Johnson, was killed shortly after this picture was taken. (Myriam Moran, © 2014) Bottom: Mary Lou Ridinger stands next to a memorial wall for her father, Lt. Johnson. (Myriam Moran, © 2014)
Johnson was stationed in Wendling, England. Airmen would take the train into Norwich for rest and recreation. When they did 40 missions they could go home. That was all they had to do, bombing over Germany and France. On July 7, 1944, Johnson got home.
Mary Lou recounted the story of her father’s train ride from Norwich to London. “Dad was so relieved that he’d done his duty and he was going home. He didn’t send a telegram to my mom. He wanted to surprise her. We think he was being sent home the last week in June 1944. He would have gone from Wendling to Norwich then London. A little English boy sat next to him on the train.”
The young lad asked the tall Texan about his medals and whether he’d dropped bombs on Germany. “My father gave the boy his medals. We have a photo of my father being awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. When he was discharged from service, dad was a captain.”
Captain Harold Johnson’s family would like to find that little English boy. They would like to know what their father told him on the train. They would like to learn what happened to the Distinguished Flying Cross and Air Medal with Three Clusters their father had been awarded for his courage and valor in World War II. They would like to share memories with this child of so long ago that by chance sat next to their father on the first leg of his journey home. And perhaps know a little more about a man who died when they themselves were only children.
“That little English boy would be an older man now,” Mary Lou said. Are you the little boy on the train who was given Captain Harold Johnson’s medals? Perhaps his family or friends who may have been told about the encounter so long ago? Please write the editor and let us know. There are three daughters of this war hero who would like to meet you.
Mary Lou Ridinger (2nd L), daughter of Lt. Harold Johnson, is pictured with her family, including her son, daughter, grandson, and granddaughter. (Myriam Moran, © 2014)
John Christopher Fine is a marine biologist with two doctoral degrees, has authored 25 books, including award-winning books dealing with ocean pollution. He is a liaison officer of the U.N. Environment Program and the Confederation Mondiale for ocean matters. He is a member of the Academy of Underwater Arts and Sciences in honor of his books in the field of education. He has received international recognition for his pioneering work investigating toxic waste contamination of our land and water.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~President Joe Biden speaks about the American Rescue Plan and the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) for small businesses in response to coronavirus in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 22, 2021. (Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images)
Battling Biden’s Racist Rescue Plan
Commentary
The Biden administration is poised to hand out billions of dollars to what it misleadingly labels “socially disadvantaged” farmers, restaurateurs, and other business owners hurt by the pandemic. The money will start flowing to them in early June … provided they don’t have white skin. Whites are out of luck.
Biden’s American Rescue Plan defines “socially disadvantaged” based on skin color and ancestry, not the hardships faced by an individual. Blacks, American Indians, Alaskan Natives, Asians, Hispanics, and Pacific Islanders are included. One group is excluded: whites.
Fortunately, the new law’s anti-white provisions are being challenged in court, and the challengers are likely to win. The U.S. Constitution forbids discrimination based on race.
One of the Midwestern farmers suing, Adam Faust, was born with spina bifida and has two prosthetic legs. He manages to milk 70 cows a day and grow 200 acres worth of feed crops. He’s in debt, but he doesn’t qualify for debt forgiveness under the American Rescue Plan because of his white skin.
Last month, a Texas farmer, who is the state’s agricultural commissioner, also sued. Like Faust, he argued that the Constitution’s Equal Protection Clause guarantees him equal treatment regardless of his race.
That is a Texas cafe owner’s claim as well. Philip Greer’s cafe lost $100,000 during the shutdown. He applied to the Restaurant Revitalization Fund set up under the American Rescue Plan. The fund offers restauranteurs up to $5 million to cover losses per location. But Greer is white. The law says for the first 21 days funds are disbursed, most white men have to go to the back of the line, behind women, veterans, and “socially and economically disadvantaged” applicants.
Greer sued. On May 18, federal Judge Reed O’Connor determined that Greer is likely to succeed at trial. He ordered the Small Business Administration to halt its discriminatory practices and consider Greer’s application immediately. The judge pointed out the obvious, that the fund’s $29 billion would likely be distributed before Greer and other white male applicants made it to the front of the line.
Citing Supreme Court precedent, O’Connor cautioned against giving “government license to create a patchwork of racial preferences based on statistical generalizations.” Amen.
Just because blacks make up a small percentage of restaurant owners or farmers doesn’t, by itself, prove past racism or justify discriminating against another group now.
Basketball teams are disproportionately black, but no one is suggesting lowering the basket for whites and Asians.
Overturning the American Rescue Plan’s racist provisions is key because otherwise, Democrats will move ahead with more extreme measures. Next up is the Justice for Black Farmers Act “to encourage a new generation of black farmers” at a cost of $100 billion.
It’s being pushed by five Democrats on the Senate agricultural committee including Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock.
The bill awards 160 acres, a home mortgage, a loan for farming equipment, and agricultural training to 200,000 recipients over 10 years, setting them up to be farmers. The only qualification is a parent of African ancestry. No agricultural experience required.
What could go wrong? It’s a reckless use of taxpayers’ money to buy and give away 32 million acres based on one principle only—racial bias.
Taxpayers would rather set up their own kids for life, rather than somebody else’s kids solely because they’re black. It’s reparations by another name.
Most Americans oppose racial preferences, though Democratic politicians push them. Voters in California and Washington State, two of the bluest states, recently rejected ballot measures for affirmative action.
The public agrees with Chief Justice John Roberts that “the way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.” In 2022, the Republican Party should present itself as the anti-discrimination party, offering voters a stark choice between racial preferences and colorblind fairness.
For now, the battle to defeat the anti-white provisions of Biden’s American Rescue Plan will be decided in court. Fortunately, that’s where the Constitution still matters.
Betsy McCaughey, Ph.D., is a political commentator, constitutional expert, syndicated columnist, and author of several books, including “The Obama Health Law: What It Says and How to Overturn,” and “The Next Pandemic.” She is also a former lieutenant governor of New York.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~President Donald Trump salutes as he participates in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery to commemorate Memorial Day and honor those who have died while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces in Arlington, Va., on May 25, 2020. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP via Getty Images)
Trump Pays Tribute to America’s Fallen in Memorial Day Statement
Former President Donald Trump issued a Memorial Day statement honoring the fallen as “unrivaled heroes” who gave their lives to protect “our sacred freedoms” and whose timeless legacy lights the path of “America’s glorious destiny.”
Trump made the remarks in a May 31 statement highlighting the debt of gratitude owed to fallen warriors of the U.S. armed forces and praised “the depth of their devotion, the steel of their resolve, and the purity of their patriotism.”
“On this Memorial Day, we remember the fallen heroes who took their last breaths in defense of our Nation, our families, our citizens, and our sacred freedoms,” Trump said.
“They made the supreme sacrifice so that our people can live in safety and our Nation can thrive in peace. It is because of their gallantry that we can together, as one people, continue our pursuit of America’s glorious destiny.
“We owe all that we are, and everything we ever hope to be, to these unrivaled heroes.”
Trump also called the legacy of those fallen soldiers “immortal” and our loyalty to them “eternal and everlasting.”
“America’s warriors are the single greatest force for justice, peace, liberty, and security among all the nations ever to exist on earth,” Trump said. “God bless our fallen Soldiers, Sailors, Coast Guardsmen, Airmen, and Marines.”
Trump’s statement came as President Joe Biden attended a commemorative ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia.
“All those we honor today gave their lives for the country, but they live forever in our hearts,” Biden said.
Biden praised the generations of service members who have “made the ultimate sacrifice” to protect the country and its ideals.
“We must honor their sacrifice by sustaining the best of America while honestly confronting all that we must do to make our nation fuller, freer, and more just,” he said.
Biden was joined by First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Over 1 million American service members have died in wars and other combat actions since 1775, according to the most recent Congressional Research Service report (pdf) on U.S. military operations casualties.~Critical Race Theory Update: Et Tu, Williamson County?
Commentary
Williamson County? Never heard of it. What’s the big deal?
Well, a lot.
Williamson County, Tennessee, is what you might call “Republican Heaven.” Just south of Democrat-stronghold Nashville, much of it is a gorgeous suburb, home to the likes of country star Luke Bryan of “American Idol” fame—on an 150-acre estate—and Sen. Marsha Blackburn.
Its county seat, Franklin, has a downtown straight out of an updated version of Norman Rockwell, the kind of place you can get both great barbecue and haute cuisine.
That small city and county are growing like crazy, in large part because they are also supposed to have one of the best public school systems in the country.
Supposed to.
‘Moms for Liberty’
I had lunch the other day with two Williamson women who have just formed that county’s branch of a new movement for parental rights—mostly focused on schools—called “Moms for Liberty.”
Their chapter is growing even faster than Williamson County itself because they, and many others, are angry about what was going on in those very schools. You might even say furious.
One of the women, local founder Robin Steenman, is a retired Air Force officer who piloted B-1 bombers over Afghanistan. The other, Lori Friedheim, a Filipina American UC–Berkeley graduate in the sciences, is the chapter’s director of research.
Friedheim and her husband, who had been living in a San Francisco suburb and were fed up with the deteriorating lifestyle—not to mention the taxes—decided to move to Franklin because, after an extensive online search, they determined it to have the best schools of anywhere in all the low tax—needless to say red—states.
She was in for a shock, as was Robin Steenman who also had children in the school system.
While Tennessee Republican Gov. Bill Lee and the heavily Republican Legislature trumpet their resistance to critical race theory in the state’s educational system, the reality on the ground is, as the French say, “toute autre chose”—something else again.
Life isn’t always what you see on Hannity.
Happening Everywhere
Before going into the details of what’s being taught—and has been for several years—in those schools, I want to reiterate why I wrote “Et Tu, Williamson County.”
If this type of propaganda can take over the elementary schools in a place with such an educated, well-to-do, largely conservative populace, it’s undoubtedly happening everywhere, or nearly everywhere, in the public schools and most of the private and parochial schools of this country.
Many think our country is already changing rapidly in front of our eyes, but nowhere is it changing more rapidly, and in a Marxist direction, than in our schools.
That will produce the end of the United States of America as we know it as surely and as quickly as anything. In fact, it already has.
It’s not a question of just stopping this. It’s a question of rolling back what has already happened.
Critical race theory—the concept that we are all permanently defined by our skin color, and not our character—has been in schools for years in an only slightly covert manner.
‘Injustice’ for Second Graders
And, as Steenman explained to me, it’s getting worse—that is, more overt—in Williamson County. In March 2020, their school board approved a curriculum called “Wit and Wisdom,” which consists of seemingly harmless things, published by an outfit named Great Minds, LLC. In this case, they really do think alike!
Here’s only a sampling of what Williamson second graders—7- and 8-year-olds—are in for starting in August with “Wit and Wisdom.” As you look at this, remember that this is the curriculum and manner through which, for months, these children are also being taught reading, writing, arithmetic, science, history, civics, art, music, and so forth:
“Lesson 1:
Point out the word injustice. Explain that unfair and injustice mean the same thing. Injustice is a stronger word. Explain … how real people respond to injustice. Explore the word injustice. Reread … how real people respond to injustice? Leave posted reference throughout the module. Echo read: What injustices did people face before the Civil Rights Act of 1964? Point to the word injustice. Remind the class of the meaning of this word injustice. Explain … read … people fighting injustice. Show students the images. What do you notice about the images? Share observations. Remind the meaning of injustice. Develop a non-verbal signal for injustice.”
OK, you get the picture. It goes on for another dozen or so similar bullet points—and this is only Lesson 1—but I can’t resist one more because it makes clear the unremittingly depressing nature of this curriculum.
“15. Lesson on prefixes: injustice, unequal, inequality, unfair.”
Couldn’t they think of any positive prefixes for their lesson? How about supercalifragilisticexpialidocious? Oh, I forgot. Mary Poppins is upbeat and white. Definitely not in the curriculum and unacceptable for today’s second graders. Eugene “Bull” Connor, not surprisingly, is.
The images referred to above for comment by the second graders are almost entirely black-and-whites from the early civil rights period, showing black people being hosed by vicious whites with signs like “We want white tenants in our white community” and “We won’t [go to school with negroes]”—that last held by a proudly grinning white boy.
One of the images contained the “n-word” scrawled on a wall, something, I was told, none of the children even knew until then, naturally color blind as they were. Who says you never learn anything in school?
Creates Division
But how do 7- and 8-year-olds react to all this continually downbeat, violent material, emphasizing racial division above all, for hours and days on end?
There are reports of growing numbers of children in therapy, plus an increasing suicide rate abounds, though some of it is due to COVID-19 as well. But I heard a personal story that affected me particularly deeply.
I was at a recent, surprisingly well-attended “Moms for Liberty” meeting in Franklin, at which an immigrant woman from Thailand, married to a Caucasian, spoke.
She read aloud a lengthy, heartfelt letter she wrote to Williamson County School Superintendent Jason Golden about the severe educational and emotional disturbances her mixed-race 7-year old son suffered from attending one of their schools. To his parent’s consternation, the boy ended up despising his white half. I quote her, in part:
“The story of Dr. King and his ‘I have a Dream’ speech is beautiful and uplifting. This is the world my child lived in until now. He was color blind. But this curriculum has changed that. It is far more harmful than helpful. It depresses him. It is dark and divisive. It paints a world with only white and black people. It paints a picture of poor black people being attacked by evil white people.
“Even more problematic, the teacher would not accept the non-racial, color blind answer from our son to a question she asked. So, the teacher asked again and again, looking for a different (acceptable) answer.”
Years ago, during Soviet times, I visited a Young Communist League Training School in Crimea. They used a similar method.
The mother concluded:
“We expect 2nd graders to be learning basic educational concepts and not be force fed story after story of racial aggressions and evils committed in the past. This is not how we create a better world for our children. This curriculum only highlights race and creates further division among the new generation. We want our child to be colorblind and value people for who they are and not the color of their skin or for past evils or mistakes that other people made in history.”
Amen to that.
Child Abuse
What that mother wrote goes for all children, although those of mixed race clearly have a special problem—and there is an increasing number of those.
We can conclude that critical race theory and all its evil spawn in various curricula, such as those permeating the vaunted Williamson County schools, are little more than a form of child abuse, one so extreme that it promises to tear our country apart.
Indeed, that is its not-so-hidden intention, given in its provenance in earlier schools of Marxism and critical theory. And it’s succeeding all too well. As I said, if it’s happening in Williamson, it’s probably happening everywhere.
These “Moms for Liberty” are part of the solution, a big part since they’re motivated by that strong natural urge for mothers to protect their children. And they’ve got a lot to protect them from these days.
This is a movement to applaud and strengthen as they are the ones who could really make our educational system, and therefore our country, great again. They already have a number of chapters.
Locally, perhaps the mother from Thailand and Golden should switch roles.
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now, editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Security personnel stand guard outside the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan as members of the World Health Organization (WHO) team investigating the origins of COVID-19 make a visit to the institute in Wuhan, China, on Feb. 3, 2021. (Hector Retamal /AFP via Getty Images)
Wuhan Gain-of-Function Research and Lies: US Should Declassify Info Now
Commentary
New details about China’s inadequately-regulated gain-of-function virology research, and factual omissions by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which secretly collaborated with China’s military, are sufficiently concerning as to require that first, scientific collaboration with the totalitarian country should cease, and second, President Biden should immediately declassify information on the source of the virus.
The Wall Street Journal reported details on May 24 about the Chinese lab’s gain-of-function research and apparent dissimulation, along with western scientific concerns about lax standards, that highlight the danger of any science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) collaboration with a country that threatened war against the United States and allies, including Taiwan and the Philippines, is prosecuting a genocide, and unleashed a virus that killed 590,000 Americans and almost 3.5 million worldwide.
Yes, there should be a full lab probe of not only WIV, but other Chinese virology labs. Demanding as much is a no-brainer, but the United States failed in this duty to protect our citizens through transparency. The European Union, at least, did demand an investigation of the lab-leak hypothesis on May 25.
The Democrats, both in the White House and through their control of Congress, are obstructing release of critical intelligence about WIV to the public. That intelligence is required to get to the bottom of suspicions about a lab leak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the COVID-19 disease.
In April, Senators Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) and Mike Braun (R-Ind.) introduced the COVID-19 Origin Act of 2021 to force the Biden administration to declassify relevant intelligence. But it has little hope of passing the Democrat-controlled Congress. We may have to wait until midterm elections in 2022 for Congress to be able to extract a modicum of satisfaction from the President.
Until then, and the completion of a full probe to the satisfaction of the world’s leading virologists, America must take measures to protect itself. U.S. corporate STEM cooperation with China, including by corporations, universities, and individual academics, must cease.
China’s lack of basic scientific transparency on SARS-CoV-2 proves that for the time being, at least, the country is not following the most fundamental of scientific ethics, much less ethics against genocide, and so is not fit for international scientific collaboration on dangerous pathogens.
The immense power of the pandemic to kill millions of people, and slow the world’s economy, along with WIV’s military ties and lack of transparency, shows that President Biden and the Democrat-led Congress must stop obstructing Republican senators’ attempts at investigation and start declassifying information. STEM collaboration with China should meanwhile cease until the country becomes less internationally aggressive, and returns to ethical and transparent scientific and political practices.
Continued failure to take the strongest precautions against China’s out-of-control science is culpable neglect by our own government and an outrageous dereliction of its duty to protect the American public.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Government Must Release All Records of Pandemic Response Spending
Pork barrel spending in pandemic response means more oversight should have been built into Bill C-13
Commentary
The COVID-19 Emergency Response Act was created in order for the government to be able to move quickly in response to the unfolding crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bill C-13 was introduced in Parliament on March 24, 2020, and received royal assent the very next day. Opposition and government members worked together in a rare display of unity to bring the bill into force. A process that usually takes months was done in a few days.
But with documents now coming to light that demonstrate some very questionable government expenditures under the guise of pandemic response, it appears that the opposition parties should have pressured for more oversight measures within the bill before giving it such quick approval.
It is understandable why the Liberal government sought the authority and ability to move quickly with spending measures in response to the pandemic. We were in the early stages of an unfolding and unprecedented emergency. There simply wasn’t time for extended parliamentary debates on every government action that may be required as issues developed. We didn’t know how long outbreaks would last, how seriously they would impact business and health care facilities, or how much government response would be required in order to address situations.
It is easy to see why the opposition parties did not want to appear as if they were hindering government efforts to provide pandemic relief. The nation was gripped with fear as a pandemic swept the world in a way unseen in generations. Citizens would not have responded favourably if it appeared that opposition parties were playing political games and obstructing any measures that would aid people and businesses during this crisis. Opposition party leaders were in a tough position, and they chose to pass Bill C-13 with virtually no scrutiny. In hindsight, this may have been a poor choice on their part.
Whenever there is a crisis, opportunists spring out of the woodwork in hopes of taking advantage of it. The COVID-19 pandemic is proving to be no exception to this rule. Members of Parliament issued a House order last October demanding the release of over a million records related to pandemic spending. To date, only less than 1 percent—8,000—of these records have been disclosed, and within them there is evidence of rampant mismanagement and questionable lobbying efforts. Just imagine what is hiding within the 992,000 or so remaining documents.
There was an utter feeding frenzy of lobbying for government contracts as over $600 billion was borrowed and disbursed by the government with little to no oversight thanks to the emergency powers that had been granted.
According to Blacklock’s Reporter, which broke the story, there were countless sole-sourced contracts with advance payments made. One former Liberal MP was part of a consortium of companies that got a $237 million contract for ventilators that were unapproved at the time and ended up each costing about $10,000 more than the original U.S. model on which they were based. A lobbyist won a $118 million contract for a client after boasting of “getting things done.” A Liberal Party-connected lobbyist contacted the cabinet seeking a contract for his son. The examples are numerous and galling.
The need for speed with the government does not have to preclude the need for oversight. Surely some of the larger contracts issued could have been subjected to some cursory examination by an all-party committee before they were issued. Opposition MPs demonstrated that they were willing and able to work co-operatively with the government in light of the emergency. They could have done so in an oversight committee just as well as they did in Parliament when they gave the government sweeping spending powers.
In a period of crisis, it is vital that a government be held more accountable in its actions, not less. Opposition parties were derelict in their role to provide constructive critique to the government, as they chose to give the government a pass on spending rather than risk losing political points with the electorate. Sometimes making the right choice is more important than making the best political choice, and that applies more than ever during an emergency.
There is no getting the toothpaste back into the tube now. All that opposition parties can do is continue to pressure the government to release its records of spending and to work on holding the government accountable after the fact. In light of what little we have seen, it is a pretty safe bet that some bombshells still await within the hundreds of thousands of records that are being withheld by the Privy Council Office.
What we can do though is to learn from this. While this pandemic appears to be winding down, we can be assured that one day, the world will face a sweeping crisis of some sort again. Not only should emergency plans be created with a swift reaction to a crisis in mind, but they should also have accountability measures built into them.
We also need to ensure that every possible dollar spent goes toward the actual crisis rather than into the pockets of unprincipled contractors and lobbyists. This is a mistake that we must never repeat.
Cory Morgan is a columnist and business owner based in Calgary.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A sold sign is posted in front of a home in a new housing development in San Francisco, in this file photo. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
Home Inventory Remains Low in Strange Start to Home-Buying Season
Commentary
U.S. home prices continued to climb in March and have risen nearly 15 percent since the beginning of 2020.
That is the takeaway of a U.S. housing market analysis by Standard & Poors, in conjunction with CoreLogic. The study was completed using a method advocated by Nobel-laureate Robert Schiller, which uses actual home price transactions compared to the property’s previous sale price.
Home prices in many western cities are climbing much faster than home prices nationally. In Seattle, prices are up 24 percent since the beginning of 2020; In Phoenix, they were up 22.5 percent during that same period.
Within California, home prices during that 15 month period were up 21.8 percent in San Diego, 15.5 percent in San Francisco and 15.2 percent in Los Angeles.
The Epoch Times analysis of the Standard & Poors CoreLogic data analyzed home prices from Jan. 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 to provide some context excluding the dramatic slowdown in home-buying activity during Spring 2020, when the pandemic caused panic buying of home goods and panic selling of financial products.
From the decrease in urban rental rates and the dramatic increase in suburban housing prices, it is easily determined that many renters from urban centers moved away from higher density areas and purchased homes in less dense, suburban areas.
At the same time, the inventory of existing homes for sale is far below levels in 2018 and 2019.
According to recent data from the National Association of Realtors, in 2018 there were enough homes for sale to supply four months of house-buying activity. In 2019, there was 3.9 months of supply.
However, in April, there was just 2.4 months of supply for the expected level of demand from home-buyers. The total number of homes for sale in April was only 1.16 million nationwide, down substantially from the 1.53 million homes for sale in 2018.
The National Association of Realtors’ (NAR) chief economist Lawrence Yun, said, “First-time buyers in particular are having trouble securing that first home for a multitude of reasons, including not enough affordable properties, competition with cash buyers and properties leaving the market at such a rapid pace.”
The NAR said properties remained on the market on average only 17 days in April, with 88 percent of homes being on the market for less than a month.
First time home-buyers represented 31 percent of sales in April while individuals buying a second home or buying a home as an investment represented 17 percent of sales during the month. Individual investors make up many of the all-cash buyers. All-cash buyers represented 25 percent of all buyers in April, according to the NAR.
Looking forward, Yun expects “more inventory [to] come to the market later this year as further COVID-19 vaccinations are administered and potential home sellers become more comfortable listing and showing their homes. The falling number of homeowners in mortgage forbearance will also bring about more inventory.”
If that happens, home price appreciation might slow down and home-buyers might start to have a little bit more choice in their home-buying decision. Meantime, the tight supply still makes much of the U.S.—and much of the Western U.S. in particular—a strong seller’s market.
Tim Shaler is a professional investor and economist based in Southern California. He is a regular columnist for The Epoch Times, where he exclusively provides some of his original economic analysis.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A U.S. flag with 15 stripes and 15 stars, like the one that was flown Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, frames the Battle Monument in Baltimore, Maryland, on Sept. 12, 2014. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Our Vice President Ignores Memorial Day, as Our National Identity Needs Shoring Up
Commentary
“Enjoy the long weekend.”
Thus spake Kamala Harris, vice president of the United States, on the run-up to Memorial Day 2021.
As many commentators pointed out, you wouldn’t know that she had Memorial Day in mind, because her tweet didn’t mention the name of the holiday. For her, it was just another long weekend, another opportunity for the sheep to graze unherded for an extra day while waiting to be shorn.
Doubtless, she is kicking herself, or at any rate, the aide who suggested she issue the tweet—not, of course, because of the omission but because of the minor PR blowback it occasioned.
The sheep may be docile but they are also touchy and unpredictable.
Probably no one Harris consorts with ever gives Memorial Day a second thought.
Why should they? It’s a holiday that commemorates something they despise—many things, in fact: the spirit of personal sacrifice and duty, on the one hand, and the country for which those exertions were expended, on the other.
I am confident that this slight disturbance in The Narrative will be quickly digested, papered over, and forgotten by the compliant media machine that surrounds and protects our nomenklatura.
Harris gave that project a little nudge a day or two later when, noting the unhappiness, she issued a compensatory tweet that did mention the holiday.
That snuffling noise you hear is the sound of cynics reacting to her second tweet.
In any event, the fracas did put me in mind of a family outing to Maryland over Memorial Day weekend several years ago.
Fort McHenry
Together with my wife and 5-year-old son, I stopped at Baltimore Harbor to see Fort McHenry, the site, in September 1814, of the Battle of Baltimore, a decisive episode in the War of 1812.
It was a glorious spring day: the sky was an infinite azure punctuated by a flotilla of stately white clouds.
Our first stop was a modern outbuilding adjacent to the 18th-century fort. We crowded into a small theater with about 30 fourth-graders and their teachers to watch a short film.
Among other things, we learned about the origins of the war, about how the British took and burned Washington, about how at last 1,000 U.S. troops under George Armistead at Fort McHenry successfully defended their bastion against the British naval onslaught, saving Baltimore and turning the tide of the war.
It was (as the Duke of Wellington said of Waterloo) “the nearest run thing you ever saw.”
The British ships, anchored out of range of Armistead’s cannons, pounded the fort with mortar and Congreve rocket fire over the course of 25 hours.
Sitting on a truce ship behind the British fleet was a young American lawyer and amateur poet named Francis Scott Key. He watched as the battle raged, dappling the night sky with noisy coruscations.
Sometime before sunrise, the bombardment suddenly stopped. Key was uncertain of the battle’s outcome until dawn broke and he saw the American flag fluttering boldly above Fort McHenry. (When he had taken command, Armistead asked for an extra-large flag so that “the British would have no trouble seeing it from a distance.”)
There would be no surrender.
The Brits abandoned their plans to invade Baltimore. The war would soon be over.
As soon as he caught sight of Old Glory, Key began scribbling what would become “The Star-Spangled Banner” on the back of a letter. He finished it in a hotel in Baltimore a day or two later.
The poem was an instant hit and was soon set to “The Anacreontic Song,” an 18th-century English drinking tune. It became the official national anthem in 1931.
The film ended and strains of the song began floating out from the loudspeakers—softly at first, then louder and louder. Everyone in the room scrambled to his feet.
“O say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave
O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave”
The schoolchildren stood reverently, each with his right hand over his heart. A floor-length curtain wheeled back, flooding the room with light.
There was Fort McHenry. And there, rising above it, was the American flag, waving gently in the breeze. With the possible exception of our son, who was busy attacking The Enemy with his toy F14, there wasn’t a dry eye in the house.
American Identity
Of course, that calculated piece of theater was in part an exercise in sentimentality. Is that a bad thing? Wallace Stevens may have been right that, in general, “sentimentality is a failure of feeling”—a sign of counterfeit emotion rather than the real thing.
Nevertheless, there is a place for a bit of affirmative sentimentality in the moral economy of our society.
Among other things, it provides emotional glue for our shared identity as Americans.
These days, perhaps more than ever before, that identity needs glue. As we contemplate the prospects for America and its institutions in the 21st century, it isn’t only particular cultural and social institutions that deserve scrutiny.
What we might call the institution of American identity—of who we are as a people—also requires our attention.
It’s often said that the terrorist attacks of 9/11 precipitated a new resolve throughout the nation.
There is some truth to that.
Certainly, the extraordinary bravery of the firefighters and other rescue personnel in New York and Washington provided an invigorating spectacle—as did Todd “Let’s Roll” Beamer and his fellow passengers on United Airlines Flight 93.
Having learned from their cellphones what had happened at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, they rushed and overpowered the terrorists who had hijacked their plane.
As a result, the plane crashed on a remote Pennsylvania farm instead of on Pennsylvania Avenue. Who knows how many lives their sacrifice saved?
The widespread sense of condign outrage—of horror leavened by anger and elevated by resolve—testified to a renewed sense of national purpose and identity after 9/11.
Attacked, many Americans suddenly (if temporarily) rediscovered the virtue of patriotism. At the beginning of his remarkable book “Who Are We? The Challenges to America’s National Identity,” the late Samuel Huntington tells about a certain block on Charles Street in Boston.
At one time, American flags flew in front of a U.S. post office and a liquor store.
At some point, the post office stopped displaying the flag, so on Sept. 11, 2001, the flag flew only in front of the liquor store.
Within two weeks, 17 American flags decorated that block of Charles Street, in addition to a huge flag suspended over the street close by.
“With their country under attack,” Huntington notes, “Charles Street denizens rediscovered their nation and identified themselves with it.”
Was that rediscovery anything more than a momentary passion? Huntington reports that within a few months, the flags on Charles Street began to disappear. By the time the first anniversary rolled around in September 2002, only four were left flying.
True, that is four times more than were there on Sept. 10, 2001, but it’s less than a quarter of the number that populated Charles Street at the end of September 2001.
There are similar anecdotes from around the country—an excess of flag-waving followed by a relapse into indifference.
Does it mean that the sudden upsurge of patriotism in the weeks following 9/11 was only, as it were, skin-deep?
Or perhaps it merely testifies to the fact that a sense of permanent emergency is difficult to maintain, especially in the absence of fresh attacks?
Is our sense of ourselves as Americans potent only when challenged?
“Does it,” Huntington asks, “take an Osama bin Laden … to make us realize that we are Americans? If we do not experience recurring destructive attacks, will we return to the fragmentation and eroded Americanism before September 11?”
One hopes that the answer is no.
Cultural Dissolution
I am writing on Memorial Day 2021, just a few months before the 20th anniversary of 9/11.
The behavior of those school children at Fort McHenry—behavior that was, I am happy to report, quietly encouraged by their teachers—suggests that the answer cannot simply be no.
But I fear that for every schoolchild standing at attention for the National Anthem, there is a teacher or lawyer or judge or politician, a Black Lives Matter spokesman, ACLU employee, or critical race theorist militating against the “hegemony of the dominant culture,” the insupportable intrusion of white, Christian, “Eurocentric” values into the curriculum, the school pageant, the town green, etc., etc.
The demonstration of national character and resolve following Sept. 11 was extraordinary.
It didn’t, however, purchase immunity from the virus of cultural dissolution advanced by an elite more taken with the woke imperatives of the 1619 Project—now incorporated in the curricula of some 4,500 schools—than lessons of 1776.
The sobering truth is that the display of national heroism and resolve following 9/11 has had little if any effect on the forces behind the fragmentation and “eroded Americanism” to which Huntington refers.
Those forces aren’t isolated phenomena; they aren’t even confined to America.
On the contrary, they are part of a global crisis in national identity, coefficients of the sudden collapse of self-confidence in the West—a collapse that shows itself in everything from swiftly falling birthrates to the attack on the whole idea of the sovereign nation-state.
It’s hard to avoid thinking that a people that has lost the will to reproduce or govern itself is a people on the road to destruction.
Which is one of many reasons we should look askance at the vice president of the United States telling us to “enjoy the long weekend” when she should have paid some homage to the men and women whose sacrifice made her little bubble of affluent privilege possible.
Roger Kimball is the editor and publisher of The New Criterion and publisher of Encounter Books. His most recent book is “Who Rules? Sovereignty, Nationalism, and the Fate of Freedom in the 21st Century.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Tourists are seen at the Tidal Basin across from the Thomas Jefferson Memorial in Washington, on March 19, 2019. (Mandel Ngan/AFP via Getty Images)
Elites Choose Ugliness in Federal Architecture, No Matter What the People Prefer
Commentary
The firing of Justin Shubow and three other members of the United States Fine Arts Commission (they refused to resign, having committed no fault) reveals something disturbing about democracy as it is at present constituted: namely how easily elites may override the express preferences of the majority of citizens, even in matters non-political.
Shubow was the progenitor of President Trump’s executive order that henceforth the classical style of architecture should be the default style of all new federal buildings.
This was soon condemned as dictatorial by the architectural lobby, though it was nothing of the kind. It did not decree that all buildings in America should be built in this style, only new federal ones, a tiny proportion of the total: unlike the modernist architects of the past who wanted to dictate the style of architecture for the whole world, and to a surprising and horrifying extent succeeded, with devastating effects on the beauty of cities everywhere.
Ideally, it should not have been necessary or even advisable to issue such an executive order: good architecture should emerge from a whole culture, spontaneously, as a manifestation of a widespread aesthetic sensibility.
Unfortunately, we do not live in a world like this: and it often seems as if the people with the least aesthetic sensibility of all are precisely those who most need it, namely the architects. They have done everything possible to make the world uglier than it was before they set to work on it.
What is curious about the revocation of President Trump’s executive order and the sacking of Subow et al. is that a large majority of Americans would prefer federal buildings to be in the classical style, rather than in the various, largely hideous styles favored by the architectural cabal.
A larger majority of Republicans than Democrats prefer the classical style, but nevertheless the majority of Democrats who prefer it is very substantial. Here, at least, or at last, is a subject upon which the partisans of both parties can agree.
It is surely odd, then, that a government that calls itself democratic, and Democrat, should turn its back on a policy that is consonant with the tastes and wishes of the majority of the people, and remove the very public servants who would oversee its implementation.
Now it is perfectly true that the government cannot simply do what the majority of the population wishes in any and all circumstances.
From time to time, the majority of the population may wish for something extremely foolish or even wicked. An electoral dictatorship is to be avoided, as the framers of the Constitution very well knew.
But if ever there were a case in which it would be safe to follow the instincts and wishes of the people, this would be it.
To see why, one has only to make the painful comparison between the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials on the one hand, and the Eisenhower Memorial on the other.
It is sobering to recall that the Jefferson Memorial is far from ancient; it was inaugurated almost within living memory. In other words, the almost complete collapse of architectural taste and ability has been sudden.
You see it in Paris, too, where hardly a single building constructed after the Second World War does not detract greatly from, or even destroy for a considerable distance, the beauty of the city.
As for the City of London, its name should be changed to Dubai-on-Thames—except that this would now be an insult to Dubai.
Why would the administration reverse a popular policy under no pressing necessity to do so?
The first reason, obviously, is that the policy was proposed by its hated and despised predecessor, from which it wants to appear the polar opposite in all things, irrespective of what they are.
The second, probably more important, is that it has an elective affinity with the architectural elite which despises the opinion of the majority as ignorant, ill-informed and uncomprehending, exactly the charges levelled against those whose who did not vote for it.
The fact that this ignorant, ill-informed and uncomprehending public has no problem whatever in “comprehending” the Taj Mahal or Notre-Dame does not give them pause: perhaps it thinks that in five hundred years’ time its own work will finally be appreciated by a more enlightened public.
But how does the administration think it can get away with it? The answer is, easily.
The fact is that, when voters go to the polls, they vote for a package, not for a single item. It is unlikely that the question of the architectural style of future Federal buildings ranks very high in their concerns, and therefore they are not going to choose whom to vote for on its basis alone, however much they might prefer the style of such buildings to be classical.
Therefore, the administration is better off pandering to a powerful activist lobby, that of most architects, than complying with the wishes of a large majority.
There are constant asymmetrical struggles in modern democracies.
There are lobbies on the one hand which are single-minded and focused on a single question. If thwarted, they have the capacity, and the determination, to make a lot of trouble for those in power.
There are large numbers of people on the other hand whose views differ from those of the lobbies, but for whom each of the subjects of the lobbies’ interest is just one thing among many others, and rarely the most important thing at that.
It follows that lobbies may easily prevail over the wishes of the majority, even when the latter are perfectly reasonable, indeed meritorious. In a modern democracy, therefore, there is a constant triumph of what people do not want.
How important is the question of architecture? In my opinion, very—but not everyone agrees. When I grow agitated over some monstrosity or other (which means that I am often agitated when I venture out because there are so many of them), my wife tells me to calm down. What is done is done, she says, and cannot be undone.
But that is precisely the point. It is true that some of these monstrosities, perhaps, could be demolished, but not all of them, so that we are in effect condemning future generations to live in unnecessary ugliness.
Perhaps, growing up with it, they will not realize it, so it will not matter. Perhaps, then, my wife is right after all: but yet, however hard I try, I cannot feel that she is.
Theodore Dalrymple is a retired doctor. He is contributing editor of the City Journal of New York and the author of 30 books, including “Life at the Bottom.” His latest book is “Embargo and Other Stories.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Defending the Constitution: The Founders’ Words Were Not ‘Meaningless’ or ‘Vague’
Commentary
This is the ninth in a series of articles defending the U.S. Constitution against accusations from political “progressives.”
A common accusation, especially from liberal academics and judges, is that many constitutional phrases are vague or meaningless. Or, as stated by former Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, they are “luminous and obscure.”
Advocates of an all-powerful central government draw two lessons from their belief that constitutional clauses are vague. The first is that the document doesn’t deserve great respect because it isn’t well drafted. The second is that vagueness justifies a very wide scope for exercise of federal and judicial power.
But the charge of “vagueness” is based on ignorance. The usual reason critics think constitutional phrases are vague or meaningless is that they don’t know that those phrases had specialized meanings in 18th century law. The Constitution is a legal document, and most of the framers and leading ratifiers were top-flight lawyers. In the founding era, even the general public was unusually knowledgeable about law. Hence, many of the Constitution’s ordinary-sounding expressions are packed with legal content. Here are some illustrations:
“regulate … Commerce,”
“establish Post Offices,”
“post Roads,”
“natural born Citizen,”
“Corruption of Blood,”
“Privileges and Immunities,” and
“necessary and proper.”
Several years ago I wrote a book explaining these and other terms. Behind that book were many individual investigations into the true meaning of constitutional words and phrases. Following is the story of one investigation.
Critics leveling the “vagueness” charge long pointed to the Necessary and Proper Clause as an example. Confused law professors and students scratched their heads over the clause and the most important Supreme Court case on the subject: Chief Justice John Marshall’s famous opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland (1819). Some tagged it “the elastic clause” and claimed it could justify almost anything.
The Necessary and Proper Clause (Article I, Section 8, Clause 18) ends a long list of powers the Constitution grants to Congress. It reads as follows:
“The Congress shall have Power … To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.”
Critics asked, “What makes a law ‘necessary’ to carry out another power? What does ‘proper’ mean? Moreover, the Constitution grants authority only to agencies and officials; ‘Powers vested … in the Government of the United States’ must be a typo!”
No one seems to have consulted 18th century legal materials about these questions—until I did so, beginning in 2003.
I labored under some disadvantages. I had no internet access to materials I needed. The law school where I was a faculty member had only a small library and was 200 miles from any other law school. The administration was uninterested in my research, even hostile.
But I had one huge advantage that the overwhelming majority of other constitutional scholars did not have: I had practiced law for many years. And although my law practice was in the 20th century rather than in the 18th, I had worked with many of the same kinds of legal documents the Founders employed.
As I examined the Necessary and Proper Clause, a little voice told me, “You’ve seen this kind of wording before! It looks like a phrase in a trust instrument or an agency agreement.”
During my law practice I’d frequently consulted form books. These are huge collections of sample documents lawyers traditionally used to draft legal instruments. “I bet,” I thought, “there were form books in the 18th century. And if there were, I probably can find language in them that looks a lot like ‘necessary and proper.’”
Shortly thereafter I visited Philadelphia. The law librarian at the University of Pennsylvania (Ben Franklin’s favorite school) gave me access to their rare book collection. It turned out that there were plenty of 18th century form books. While thumbing through one of them, I found a form for a “letter of attorney”—a kind of agency agreement we now call a “power of attorney.”
This is what I saw:
Extract from an 18th century form book. (Rob Natelson)
Further checking confirmed that letters of attorney and other documents listing powers often finished up the list with an additional grant of “necessary and proper” powers.
I soon found that phrases like “necessary and proper” also were exceptionally common in English and American statutes, trusts, leases, commissions, and charters. Study of 18th century English court cases taught me that in this context the word “necessary” meant “incidental.” I also learned that “necessary and proper” was a translation of an earlier Latin phrase, necessaria et opportuna. My knowledge of Latin (another skill rare among modern academics) confirmed that “necessary” meant “incidental.”
Still more investigation showed that “proper” meant that the person exercising authority was governed by legal duties of trust. Investigation also demonstrated that the Constitution really did grant powers to “the Government of the United States.” Those powers were implicit in clauses imposing obligations on the government, such as the Constitution’s mandate that the federal government protect the states from invasion.
The most significant finding was that “necessary” meant “incidental.” Here’s why:
When a document grants a list of explicit powers, it quietly grants unmentioned powers as well. The unmentioned powers permit the agent to carry out his duties by some methods not listed explicitly in the document. For example, depending on local custom, a document authorizing a person to manage a store might include an unmentioned power to advertise. Unmentioned powers are called “incidental.”
Eighteenth-century law imposed tight constraints on incidental powers. They could be exercised only to carry out listed powers. They had to be of lesser importance (“less worthy”) than listed powers. They had to be methods customary or reasonably required in the circumstances. Someone given authority to manage a business couldn’t claim that he had “incidental power” to use his boss’s money to take over an entirely unrelated business.
Let’s consider a related example from the Constitution. It grants Congress explicit power to “regulate Commerce … among the several States.” Those adopting the Constitution understood “commerce” to be mercantile trade and some associated activities, such as navigation and marine insurance. A federal law requiring standardized labels on goods shipped across state lines would be incidental to the commerce power and therefore authorized by the Necessary and Proper Clause.
By contrast, manufacturing and agriculture are major economic categories distinct from commerce —even though (as the Founders knew) these categories impact each other greatly. Manufacturing and agriculture are not mere incidents of commerce, and a law governing them is not incidental to “regulat[ing] … Commerce.”
Thus, my research taught me that 20th century Supreme Court decisions were wrong when they ruled that the Necessary and Proper Clause gave Congress sweeping power over manufacturing and agriculture.
Once you know the background of the Necessary and Proper Clause, you see that it helps make the Constitution flexible—but as not as flaccid as advocates of unlimited federal control would like it to be. The background also helps you grasp the true meaning of Justice Marshall’s opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland. I’m happy to report that, possibly based in part on my research, Chief Justice Roberts recaptured some of this meaning in a case decided in 2012.
It’s not the Constitution that’s vague or meaningless. On this subject, vagaries exist principally in the minds of the critics.
Robert G. Natelson was a law professor for 25 years at three different universities and is senior fellow in constitutional jurisprudence at the Independence Institute in Denver. He is the author of “The Original Constitution: What It Actually Said and Meant” (3rd ed, 2014) and co-author of “The Origins of the Necessary and Proper Clause” (2010).
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~China’s Fake Friend: Russia
Commentary
China’s top jet-setting-diplomat-who-flies-beneath-the-radar, Yang Jiechi, arrived in Moscow on Monday to talk security with the Kremlin. The Financial Times calls this “the latest sign of deepening ties between Beijing and Moscow.” But I call it baloney.
After 116,000 Russian COVID-19 deaths and counting, Putin should be seething beneath that thin smile. Add to that his legendary attempts to return Russia to the “greatness” of the Soviet days, in which China was a supplicant to Moscow’s power, and diplomatic errand-boy to Russian premiers at the U.N. Since the Soviet breakup in 1991, Moscow has had its own 30 years of humiliation, not least at the hands of Beijing.
Russia is desperate for foreign cash after being shut in by Western economic sanctions imposed after its 2014 invasion of Ukraine’s Crimea and Donbass regions. Things just haven’t been the same for Russia since, with economic circumstances forcing Moscow into China’s arms in what amounts to a shotgun marriage. China, perhaps on purpose, used the same “shot-gun diplomacy” with Iran, Thailand, and Myanmar (Burma). International economic ostracization of countries over human rights and military transgressions, forces the resultantly desperate countries to kowtow to Beijing for an exports lifeline.
Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin attend the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg, Russia on June 7, 2019. (Olga Maltseva/AFP/Getty Images)
Two months after the Crimea invasion, the ostracized Putin had a $400 billion, 38bcm (billion cubic meters) annual natural gas-supply deal with Xi Jinping, but with strings attached. “The long-running price dispute that had stymied the deal for years was resolved in China’s favor, most likely bringing the price down to the levels that China enjoyed from its main Central Asian supplier, Turkmenistan,” according to a Harvard analysis. I suspect that was about a 10 percent price cut from international market rates. China “helped” Russia realize that international economic sanctions had turned the once-great country into a practically-land-locked Turkmenistan. Friends indeed.
Then came closer Sino-Russian military ties, and joint military maneuvers in 2018, all probably part of the price that Russia paid China for the privilege of trading. Trade that year was a record $100 billion. In 2019, Russia opened its network to Huawei’s 5G. Goodbye, data security.
China is stealing data from Russia with one hand, and force-feeding yuan with the other. Beijing doesn’t buy all that Russian energy with valuable U.S. dollars or euros. It buys a significant chunk with its own freely-printed yuan. This forces Russia, or Russia’s trading partners, to purchase from China in the future. Russia’s foreign reserves in yuan increased from 5 percent in 2018 to 14 percent in 2019, but down to about 12 percent at the end of 2020. That level is still exceptionally-high relative to the world’s foreign exchange reserves, which are less than 2 percent in yuan.
China is also using Russia’s economic distress to leach or steal technology from the country, including aviation, rocket, and nuclear technologies. China seeks to be a leading global exporter of these in the future, and to do so it needs to acquire the tech first, most easily through theft or secondarily, barter by giving short-term access to China’s market. In 2019, Russia’s state arms manufacturer Rostec accused China of widespread theft. “Unauthorized copying of our equipment abroad is a huge problem. There have been 500 such cases over the past 17 years,” Yevgeny Livadny, Rostec’s chief of intellectual property projects, said. “China alone has copied aircraft engines, Sukhoi planes, deck jets, air defense systems, portable air defense missiles, and analogs of the Pantsir medium-range surface-to-air systems.”
The Financial Times failed to reveal these underlying stresses in the Sino-Russian relationship. The leading British paper blithely states, in its recent article, that the announcement of the Yang Jiechi trip was made only a few days after Putin and Xi’s relationship flourished during the launch of a nuclear energy project that “entails Russia helping China to build four nuclear reactors.”
No mention of Russia’s relative poverty, and forced technology transfer, in the Financial Times. Just a detailed account of the compliments that the two leaders showered upon one another. Putin said that ties between the two countries were at “the best level in history.” Xi talked up a “comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era,” according to the FT.
The famously pink British financial paper swallowed it all, hook, line, and sinker. “The comments add to recent emphasis on closer ties in the build-up to the 20th anniversary of the signing of a treaty between the two countries aimed at bolstering cooperation,” the FT reporter gushed. “Last year, in a phone call with Putin, Xi highlighted the need for closer relations with Russia given the ‘turbulence’ caused by the pandemic and said the 2001 treaty had established [no less than] a new type of international relations, according to state media.”
The reporter’s tone is critical, even skeptical, of U.S. President Joe Biden, characterized as aggressive against China. Biden “imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia for ‘harmful foreign activities.’” Why the scare quotes? The reporter doesn’t believe that Russia committed “harmful foreign activities?” That Biden last week waived Trump-era sanctions on Russia against Nord Stream 2, a Russia-Germany gas pipeline, is omitted from the FT story. The waiver came after cyber-criminals in Russia disabled an American oil pipeline this month. Thousands of American gas stations in the south-east suffered shortages as a result.
There’s no mention in the article of critical differences between China and Russia, for example China’s attempt to economically muscle-in as a “near-arctic state,” where currently short-of-the-ready Russia has long been an internationally-recognized arctic power. As in other regions, Moscow needs Beijing’s cash, and Beijing is using that vulnerability as a foot in the door. China invested billions of dollars into Russia’s Arctic gas projects, including a fleet of ice-breaker gas tankers to be jointly operated by China’s Cosco shipping company, and Russia’s PAO Sovcomflot. As noted by Foreign Policy, “Russia and China’s Arctic partnership is not an alliance—it is driven by business. Despite mutually beneficial interests in the region, commercial realpolitik is at the heart of their engagement.”
Neither are Russian fears of losing control of its vulnerable eastern regions mentioned. Russian territory near China is sparsely populated, underdeveloped, and according to Putin in 2000, at risk of takeover by China. Dmitry Medvedev, in 2012, warned that few people live in the Russian Far East (RFE), and protecting its residents from “excessive expansion by neighboring states” remains critical, including by preventing enclaves where foreigners settle. Medvedev currently serves as Deputy Chairman of the Security Council of Russia.
Moscow seeks Chinese capital to develop its far east, but as early as 2016 it was apparent that “not only has the modernization of the RFE run aground, the tie to China is becoming an alliance where Russia depends more on China than China does on Russia,” according to Stephen Blank, a Russia expert at the American Foreign Policy Council. The Wall Street Journal notes that RFE locals call China’s influence a “Chinese invasion” (as does one Australian academic). They have protested against China-backed ventures including a Lake Baikal water bottling plant and Siberian timber logging.
(L-R) Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, and Bulgarian Premier Boyko Borisov speak during an economic forum in Budapest attended by 16 central and eastern European leaders on Nov. 27, 2017. (Attila Kisbenedek/AFP/Getty Images)
China and Russia are also in competition in Central Asia. Beijing is pushing its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) into Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan, which Moscow sees as within its own post-Soviet sphere of influence. In its new mercantilism, China wants natural resources from Central Asia, in exchange for exports of its overproduction, for example steel and concrete. China also wants to ship its exports by rail through the region, paid for by the countries themselves, but built by Chinese companies. That’s hitting three birds with one jade stone.
This is Xi Jinping’s self-serving BRI plan, and there are plenty of bribable tin-pot dictators who can help make it a reality. Billions of dollars later, China is Central Asia’s top “investor.” As elsewhere, Russia’s Crimea invasion hampered its own influence in Central Asia, and its attempt at a “Eurasian Economic Union,” with Moscow in the lead. It failed because Moscow went broke. The union was “harmonized” (read: subjugated) in 2015 to Xi’s BRI.
Now China’s state media speaks of “BRI countries” as if they were imperial possessions, even as Xi hastens to clarify that “China has no geopolitical motives, seeks no exclusionary blocs, and imposes no business deals on others.” Methinks thou dost protest too much, General Secretary.
Moscow, which has troops stationed in Tajikistan, now has to contend with China’s own troops there. Their excuse? Augmenting Tajik border security to protect against Islamic terrorists infiltrating north from Afghanistan. Where Moscow can, it sabotages Chinese influence in Central Asia, for example by inviting India and Pakistan into the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). Given the dysfunctional India-Pakistan relationship, Russia may have achieved the diplomatic version of a poison pill strategy.
Why the Financial Times portrays all this as a beautifully budding and unproblematic friendship between respected statesmen Putin and Xi, who are in reality closer to mafia kingpins planning each others’ eventual demise, is an enigma. Perhaps because it is a British financial paper, and British finance is just dying to get a bigger slice of China’s international commerce (and maybe some of Russia’s too). Kind of like Russia’s awkward kissing-up to China. Both Russian oligarchs (with Putin in the lead) and British financiers, appear to subscribe to the mantra that “flattery will get you everywhere” in the Middle Kingdom.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~China’s Bio-Economic War on the World Has Begun to Backfire
Commentary
In May 2014, I quit kidding myself and realized that China was at war with the United States. I realized China intended to dominate the world by mandating the terms of international engagement. This meant China was at war with the world—moderating treaties, legal notions, and productive trust be damned.
May 2014’s triggering event: 70 or so Chinese vessels escorted an oil-drilling ship into waters claimed by both Vietnam and China—with Vietnam’s claim being more credible and diplomatically defensible. Vietnam reported the Chinese flotilla included seven armed coast guard and navy ships—seven warships. The inclusion of warships makes a case that the incursion was an act of war.
The invading drill ship anchored 120 miles off the Vietnamese coast, inside Vietnam’s 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone as defined by the 1982 U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea. China signed that treaty and promised to respect it.
The war-making bottom line: China violated Vietnam’s territorial sovereignty and broke an international treaty by encroaching on Vietnam’s EEZ. Deploying a state-owned billion-dollar drilling ship is a calculated political action that demonstrated Beijing intended to steal Vietnamese natural resources.
On May 13, 2014, I wrote a column analyzing the clash. The column connected China’s aggression to Russia’s spring 2014 invasion and annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula. Russia’s “Crimean Precedent”—the brazen military invasion and political annexation of sovereign territory—shredded several post-Cold War diplomatic agreements. But like Vladimir Putin’s Kremlin, communist Beijing didn’t give a damn about legalities.
Russia’s strategically revealing Crimean crime reprised fascist aggression in Europe (Germany and Italy), Africa (Italy), and Asia (Imperial Japan) in the 1930s. And communism is fascism wrapped in faculty club jargon, so include Stalin’s Russia in that aggressor list.
Fact: The Boys in Beijing have been waging war on America since the 1990s. I wrote a column in 2010 that asked why China was building a large navy. I suspected the answer was dark but hoped that wealth would create a Chinese middle class that demanded freedom and moderation and peace.
Wrong. Chinese economic prowess merely fed its communist totalitarian war machine.
Connoisseurs of newspaper essays will accuse me of burying the lede (sinking my key point deep in the essay). Guilty—but with reason. The historical background supports the global significance of this week’s sobering news: the likelihood that the COVID-19 virus (the Communist Chinese Party virus is another name) escaped by accident or on purpose from a Chinese laboratory in the city of Wuhan and infected the entire planet.
The Wall Street Journal has published an in-depth analysis of the evidence.
In February 2020, Senator Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) suggested the virus may have escaped a research lab in Wuhan. The major mainstream media narrative: Cotton was damned, snarked, and ridiculed, from The New York Times to CNN to Xinhua (the Chinese “official” news agency).
Xinhua spews propaganda. You trust The New York Times and CNN? Perhaps it’s time you woke. (Does woke satirize Antifa and BLM lingo? You decide.)
Even Dr. Tony Fauci says that the possibility that the COVID-19 escaped from a lab in Wuhan “certainly exists” and he’s “totally in favor of a full investigation of whether that could have happened.”
In spring 2020, Fauci and his bureaucrat cadre (which includes the mainstream media dolts) dissed Cotton.
Fauci et al. owe Cotton an apology.
China lied about the origins of the virus, and people died, planet-wide. Bumper sticker: China lied, people died, planet-wide.
In 2020, I wrote a column arguing that China’s dictatorship hid critical information about the virus, for fear of being exposed as incompetent. Realizing the pandemic’s threat, Beijing’s communist thugs in charge apparently decided to export it to the rest of the world so China would not suffer alone.
That’s an act of war on the world.
China’s communist dictators decided to wage bioeconomic warfare on the world. If Donald Trump were president, that decision would cost Beijing. With Slow Joe in charge? I’m not so sure. But the facts are coming out. And when they do, blowback is inevitable.
Austin Bay is a colonel (ret.) in the U.S. Army Reserve, author, syndicated columnist, and teacher of strategy and strategic theory at the University of Texas–Austin. His latest book is “Cocktails from Hell: Five Wars Shaping the 21st Century.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The P4 laboratory building at the Wuhan Institute of Virology is shown in Wuhan, China, on May 13, 2020. (Hector Retamal/AFP via Getty Images)
Dr. Fauci Makes the Case for Investigation of Wuhan Lab
US-funded lab conducted dangerous gain-of-function research
Commentary
Dr. Anthony Fauci recently told reporters he is “not convinced” that COVID-19 developed naturally. Then on Monday, the chief White House medical advisor contended it was “highly likely” that the virus “occurred naturally before spreading from animal to human.” In similar style on March 28, Fauci told Margaret Brennan of CBS News that “there is no evidence that suggests the virus was created in a laboratory.” These baffling reversals should come as no surprise.
Anthony Fauci earned a medical degree in 1966, when the government was drafting physicians for military hospitals in Vietnam. To avoid that duty, Dr. Fauci hired on with the federal National Institutes of Health, in what he conceded was a “cushy job.”
Fauci’s bio shows no advanced degrees in molecular biology or biochemistry, so strictly speaking he is not a virologist. Even so, Fauci became head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) in 1984.
As Michael Fumento showed in “The Myth of Heterosexual AIDS,” Fauci was wrong that AIDS would ravage the American population on a wide scale. UC Berkeley molecular biologist Peter Duesberg, author of “Inventing the AIDS Virus,” encountered Fauci as the government spokesman for “AIDS thought control.”
The longtime NIAID boss is now the government mouthpiece for pandemic thought control, contending that there is “no evidence” that the novel coronavirus was engineered in a laboratory. In reality, the evidence has been steadily mounting, and it points to the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV), which received shipments of deadly pathogens from a lab in Canada.
The pathogens shipped to China by Dr. Xiangguo Qiu included Ebola Makona, Mayinga, Kikwit, Ivory Coast, Bundibugyo, Sudan Boniface, Sudan Gulu, MA-Ebov, GP-Ebov, GP-Sudan, Henra, Nipah Malaysia, and Nipah Bangladesh. These would be useful in gain-of-function research, which according to the Office of Science Policy of the National Institutes of Health, can “enhance the pathogenicity or transmissibility of potential pandemic pathogens (PPPs)” and raise “biosafety and biosecurity concerns.”
In 2012, Fauci raised safety concerns about this research, which the NIH banned in 2014 but revived in 2017. The NIAID boss authorized grants to the Wuhan lab, where gain-of-function research could be conducted in secret, with no accountability to Americans.
Fauci is uncritical of Communist China and a big fan of World Health Organization boss Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, a non-physician and major apologist of China. Fauci now claims to welcome an investigation of China’s role in the pandemic. As they turn the light on the WIV, investigators would be wise to focus on the role of Dr. Fauci.
The NIAID boss, in government for 53 years, is currently the highest paid bureaucrat in the entire federal government. With a salary of $417,608, Fauci is paid more than the president of the United States but never has to face the voters. By his own account, the longtime bureaucrat likes wielding that kind of unchecked power.
“With all due modesty, I think I’m pretty effective,” Fauci told Norah O’Donnell of CBS in a July 15, 2020 interview with InStyle. “I certainly am energetic. And I think everybody thinks I’m doing more than an outstanding job.” In light of Dr. Fauci’s evasions and reversals, everybody might not think so. Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) recently proposed the FIRED Act, “Fauci Incompetence Requires Early Dismissal.”
In a House Appropriations Committee hearing on Tuesday, Fauci defended “modest” collaboration with Chinese scientists in Wuhan on the study of bat coronaviruses, while contending that NIAID did not allocate money for gain-of-function research. The NIAID director did not specify what kind of research had in fact taken place.
Investigators should make public all NIH and NIAID communications with the Wuhan Institute of Virology and any intermediary agencies, public or private. Did the NIH, CDC, WIV, and WHO agree on messaging? Why did the CDC’s vaunted Epidemic Intelligence Service fail to stop COVID-19 from arriving in America?
What did Dr. Anthony Fauci know about the Wuhan lab? When did he know it, and what did he do about it? The American people, who have suffered so much, have a right to know.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Containers of Johnson's baby powder made by Johnson and Johnson sits on a shelf at Jack's Drug Store in San Anselmo, California, on Oct. 18, 2019. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
Johnson & Johnson Asks High Court to Void $2 Billion Talc Verdict
WASHINGTON—Johnson & Johnson is asking for Supreme Court review of a $2 billion verdict in favor of women who claim they developed ovarian cancer from using the company’s talc products.
The case features an array of high-profile attorneys, some in unusual alliances, including former independent counsel Kenneth Starr, who is representing the women who sued Johnson & Johnson. The nation’s largest business groups are backing the company, and a justice’s father also makes an appearance because of his long association with the trade group for cosmetics and personal care products.
The court could say as soon as Tuesday whether it will get involved.
At the root, Johnson & Johnson argues that the company didn’t get a fair shake in a trial in state court in Missouri that resulted in an initial $4.7 billion verdict in favor of 22 women who used talc products and developed ovarian cancer.
A state appeals court cut more than half the money out of the verdict and eliminated two of the plaintiffs but otherwise upheld the outcome in a trial in which lawyers for both sides presented dueling expert testimony about whether the company’s talc products contain asbestos and whether asbestos-laced talc can cause ovarian cancer.
The jury found for the women on both points, after which Judge Rex M. Burlison wrote that evidence at the trial showed “particularly reprehensible conduct on the part of Defendants.”
The evidence, Burlison wrote, included that the company knew there was asbestos in products aimed at mothers and babies, knew of the potential harm and “misrepresented the safety of these products for decades.”
Nine of the women have died from ovarian cancer, lawyers for the plaintiffs said.
Johnson & Johnson denies that its talc products cause cancer and it called the verdict in the Missouri trial “at odds with decades of independent scientific evaluations confirming Johnson’s Baby Powder is safe, is not contaminated by asbestos and does not cause cancer.” The company also is the maker of one of three COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in the United States.
Health concerns about talcum powders have prompted thousands of U.S. lawsuits by women who claim asbestos in the powder caused their cancer. Talc is a mineral similar in structure to asbestos, which is known to cause cancer, and they are sometimes obtained from the same mines. The cosmetics industry in 1976 agreed to make sure its talc products do not contain detectable amounts of asbestos.
Last year, a U.S. government-led analysis of 250,000 women found no strong evidence linking baby powder with ovarian cancer in the largest analysis to look at the question, though the study’s lead author called the results “very ambiguous.”
The findings were called “overall reassuring” in an editorial published with the study in January 2020 in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study wasn’t definitive but more conclusive research probably isn’t feasible because a dwindling number of women use powder for personal hygiene, the editorial said.
A few months later, the company announced it would stop selling its iconic talc-based Johnson’s Baby Powder in the U.S. and Canada, citing declining demand driven by what it called misinformation about health concerns.
The disputed link between cancer and talc is not really a part of the high court case. Instead, the company said it should have not been forced to defend itself in one trial against claims by women from 12 states, differing backgrounds, and with varying histories of using Johnson & Johnson products containing talc.
The $1.6 billion in punitive damages is out of line and should be reduced, the company also argued in a brief that was written by Neal Katyal, a Washington lawyer who aligns with progressive causes and also represents corporate clients. Katyal, who was the acting top Supreme Court lawyer for a time in the Obama administration, declined an on-the-record interview.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and trade associations for manufacturers, insurers and the pharmaceutical industry are among the business organizations backing Johnson & Johnson’s appeal.
Tiger Joyce, president of the American Tort Reform Association, pointed to how long it took the trial judge to read the jury its instructions as an indication of how unfair the trial was to Johnson & Johnson.
“When a defendant is facing a case where it takes over five hours for the judge to read the jury instructions to the jury, you just have to ask yourself what are we doing here,” said Joyce, whose group generally backs limits on liability lawsuits.
Starr said in an interview with The Associated Press that none of Johnson & Johnson’s legal arguments is worth the court’s time. “As the jury found and as every judge to review this six-week trial record has concluded, Johnson & Johnson’s conduct over decades was reprehensible,” Starr said.
In addition to Starr, other members of the women’s legal team are former Attorney General John Ashcroft and Washington lawyers David Frederick and Tom Goldstein, frequent advocates before the Supreme Court.
Justice Brett Kavanaugh worked for Starr when he investigated the affair between President Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, which led to Clinton’s impeachment.
Another name that pops up in some documents in the case is E. Edward Kavanaugh, who was the longtime president of the Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance Association and is the justice’s father.
Kavanaugh’s group fought efforts to list talc as a carcinogen or attach warning labels to talc products. Kavanaugh is retired and the group now is called the Personal Care Products Council.
Ethicists contacted by the AP said they haven’t seen anything that would warrant the justice having to step aside from the case.
Already, one justice almost certainly won’t take part. Justice Samuel Alito reported last year that he owned $15,000 to $50,000 in Johnson & Johnson stock. Federal law prohibits judges from sitting on cases in which they have financial interest.
By Mark Sherman~Greg Burton, the head of Westrock Rescue Squad, teaches local first responder volunteers how to quickly and safely extract crash victims after an accident. (Salena Zito)
This Small Town’s Sense of Community Is No Accident
Commentary
HOT SPRINGS, Virginia—Where the tidy brick sidewalks end at the edge of the business district, the carnage was jarring. Two cars had their roofs sheared off. Shattered glass was strewn everywhere. In the distance, an older van was upturned, on its roof, alongside two vehicles on their sides and another car in a ditch, completely upside down and touching the creek.
Known colloquially as Sam Snead Highway, the winding road that hugs the Allegheny Mountains and serves as the thoroughfare for this charming town is still damp from a violent evening downpour. The initial assumption is that all six vehicles met this gruesome fate after hydroplaning on the single-lane highway.
But that assumption is wrong—as good a lesson as any for never judging a book by its cover, even when the evidence is visually overwhelming.
Greg Burton is among 20 or so people who showed up to help extract these vehicles from their shattered state. Yet, he appeared to possess no sense of urgency. Dressed in gray overalls with reflective piping, a rescue patch, and a white hard hat, he was not in charge of a true accident scene. He was, rather, in charge of training rescue volunteers. They huddled in teams of five around several different life-and-death scenarios that required an appropriate perception and response from those first on the scene.
“So, I’m an instructor for this class that trains local volunteer firefighters and emergency first-responders,” Burton said. “But I’m a volunteer as well.”
Burton, from nearby Covington, is part of the Westrock Rescue Squad based inside the massive paper mill where he works. Burton said they were simulating different kinds of car crashes that the volunteers might happen upon at any given time.
“So, these two cars here, we simulated an accident of a car is on its wheels like you see it, but we had to take the doors off,” he said. “We call this vehicle extrication, so if somebody’s trapped inside of a car, we teach them different things they might have to do to get them out of the car. So, we did basically the same maneuvers with the cars on their side and the cars that are completely rolled over and teach them what they are going to do to secure it and get patients out of it.”
Everyone at the class will be one of those first on the scene when duty calls.
The sense of community is evident everywhere in this small tourist town of fewer than 4,500 people.
Seth Ellis is normally behind the counter of Bacova Beer Company, the distillery he opened a couple of years ago. He quickly joined the local chamber of commerce and then decided to add a restaurant. It opened last year during the height of the pandemic in one of the most restrictive states in the country.
Ellis smiled and shrugged at the timing and explained that he did beer runs locally and regionally, traveling as far away as Charlottesville to stay afloat. He and his wife settled here years ago when she took a job with the forest service. He is from Alabama, and she is from Ohio. “But this community is home,” he said. “I love the sense of everyone having each other’s back.”
Miguel Rosado came to Hot Springs from Puerto Rico five years ago and brought his family with him. “Things were not good there, and I wanted a better life and opportunities for my family,” he told me. Rosado said he took a job with the Homestead resort, and within a year, he had his own home and had put down roots. During an impromptu tour of the hotel’s William McKinley presidential suite, he spied an ancient map of the island he once called home hanging on the wall, a tribute to the peace treaty McKinley signed with the Spanish government, which ceded Puerto Rico to the United States in 1898.
Pointing to a town on the map across the bay from San Juan, Rosado said, “This is where I am from.”
With her chestnut hair pulled up in a ponytail, Debbie Young was overseeing the volunteers, who she said respond to approximately 350 calls a year. “The incidents range from heart attacks on the trails or at the hotel to tourists not quite knowing how to navigate the steep and winding roads,” she said.
The age range of the volunteers spans from 24 to 60, Young said. Many are legacy volunteers whose fathers’ fathers’ fathers did the same thing for their community in their own time.
Many assumptions about small-town America are disproven over the course of the afternoon. Hot Springs is filled with stories about aspiration, respect, and hope, told by people with genuine diversity of color, roots, and background who call this place home.
Theirs is a way of life that can be found in all of the towns nestled in the nooks and crannies of America, something few people experience, instead of flying overhead or zipping by on an interstate.
A passing motorist might assume that the grisly scene apparently unfolding on the old “valley road” is genuine. If you don’t stop and listen to people with lives very different from your own, you might never really know the rest of the story.
Salena Zito has held a long, successful career as a national political reporter. Since 1992, she has interviewed every U.S. president and vice president, as well as top leaders in Washington, D.C., including secretaries of state, speakers of the House and U.S. Central Command generals. Her passion, though, is interviewing thousands of people across the country. She reaches the Everyman and Everywoman through the lost art of shoe-leather journalism, having traveled along the back roads of 49 states.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Voters stand in line to cast their ballots during the first day of early voting in the U.S. Senate runoff, in Atlanta, Ga., on Dec. 14, 2020. (Jessica McGowan/Getty Images)
The Coming Un-Silent Majority Will Bring Victory to GOP in 2022 and 2024
Commentary
I don’t know if Niels Bohr, Nostradamus, Samuel Goldwyn or Yoga Berra was the first to use the phrase “Predictions are difficult, particularly about the future,” or one of its many variants, but I think most of us would agree that they all have some validity.
Nevertheless, I’m going to go ahead and make a big one and, yes, it involves that other hoary proverb about it always being darkest before the dawn, since we seem to be in a very dark period, but… here goes…
The Democratic Party is headed for epochal electoral disasters in 2022 and most probably 2024. They will be trounced by a renewed GOP.
And I’m saying that even factoring in what many on the right believe with increasing justification—a lot of cheating has been going on.
Yes, it will still be there in those years, but not as much because the number of people watching is going up exponentially.
America is poised for a big reaction. And I’m not a Pollyanna… well, not completely. I’m just a one time high school physics student who remembers Newton’s third law about action and reaction.
The big winner in those coming elections will be the Trump-DeSantis party, in whatever order emerges, and among the big losers, besides the Democrats, will be the thirty-five House Republicans who voted for a Jan. 6 investigation, however few of them are left after primary season.
Due to the overwhelming majority of the media (which few pay attention to anymore), the academy (a self-immolating problem I will get into in a moment) and their own extreme leftwing, the Democrats are losing contact with the American people on a daily basis.
In their gigantic, seemingly endless, spending programs, they ignore the obvious, spoken aloud by Bill Clinton in his 1996 State of the Union and not really contradicted since: “The era of big government is over.”
But didn’t it come back with COVID? Not much apparently.
In a new Rasmussen poll voters prefer small to big government by the significant margin of 55 percent to 37 percent. They also, in a poll only a week or two before, prefer capitalism to socialism by more than three to one—65 percent to 18 percent. (Yes, Rasmussen tilts Republican but his record has historically been among the most accurate—and these aren’t close calls.)
Critical Race Theory
At the same time, the American people—white ones anyway—have been informed by leftists, people of color who believe those same white people (a significant percentage of whom came from societies where they were oppressed themselves) are oppressing them, the media, and the academy that they (read: all whites) are unremittingly racist.
Whites were, in Lady Gaga’s words, “born that way.” Only by being “anti-racist”—whatever that means; it’s constantly changing—can they possibly be reformed. And even then it’s moot.
Most whites (and a number of non-whites too, I’d wager) started by just nodding their heads or changing the subject when this idiotic nonsense came up, hoping it would go away.
It didn’t. It got worse. Now we have critical race theory to deal with, an idea so evil in its conception—so straight out of Goebbels despite its intellectual pretensions—you couldn’t devise a better way to create racism where it didn’t exist, beginning in kindergarten. Good-bye Martin Luther King and judging us all by our characters. Hello, you are your skin color.
Not to mention the sudden appearance of that old canary in the coal mine, anti-Semitism, that is now raising its wretched head in practically every Democrat-controlled big city out there, crazed Hamas supporters demanding to know the ethnic background of innocent LA sushi diners, bombs going off in the Diamond District of New York.
Reaction
Enter Newton’s third law: action begets reaction. Only in this case the reaction will dwarf the initial action. More people than you can imagine have about had it with the American left in its present incarnation and are ready to explode.
These folks used to be called the Silent Majority, but they’re suddenly becoming not so silent anymore. That those who are still have a secret ballot is just icing on the proverbial cake.
Over the last few years, many were afraid to express their opinions in public, for fear of work or social repercussions. This is diminishing—and surprisingly rapidly.
Here in Tennessee—and from reports many other states as well, almost all red states (the majority)—we are seeing an incredible amount of grass roots organizing especially against critical race theory, largely by mothers who are appalled by this evil ideology being inculcated into their children from the age of four.
People are rallying against the crypto—(well, actually not so crypto)—Marxist educational system all across the country. Do what you want, but stay away from our kids. That’s their red line, in more ways than one.
I have never seen so much of this kind of organizing on the right. The Democrats and their media friends made a critical mistake supporting CRT, just as they have made a mistake in not separating themselves from Antifa and BLM violence.
Some of them realize this—it’s so obvious; how could they not—and for this reason as well as to distract from the ongoing electoral fraud investigations in multiple states, the Democrats have put so much effort into magnifying (and investigating) Jan. 6.
But this is not stopping the electoral investigations that are going forward in those states, nor is it stopping something that will surprise you that I bring up at this late date—the John Durham-led investigation into the Trump-Russia collusion fraud.
Durham Investigation
Most had given up on it in its entirety. I had myself at times. But looked at from afar, the later (i.e., the closer to 2022) this is delivered or indictments are made the better.
Just the other day, George Papadopoulos (remember him?)—a man with a more than a passing interest in this investigation—popped up in an interview with Jordan Conradson of The Gateway Pundit (a website some thought at one point over the top in its criticisms of the Left, but that has become increasingly vindicated in its accuracy).
“George: My opinion is that Durham is very real …. I know who he has interviewed in October 2019. Specific guys with the U.S. intelligence community that should not have been meeting with me, this infamous Australian diplomat. We know he’s spoken to the Italians, to various governments. He has been working non-stop since 2019 where I think he got all the juicy info back then. Then Barr appoints some special council a month before Biden goes to the White House, and now Durham is simply, in my opinion like I said, I don’t talk to Durham, he’s waiting for the right moment to expose what he has learned and I think it is going to be tantamount to conspiracy in the Obama administration. I truly believe that. I think he is incredibly real and I would actually put my entire reputation on the line saying this …. It’s going to be very interesting to see when and how that information comes out, how the media tries to deflect or cover it up.
“Conradson: Do you have an estimate of when that information might come out?
“George: I think by this summer we’re going to have a final conclusion on Durham. [Yes, we’ve heard that one multiple times before, but still…ed.] This thing can’t last forever but I just think he’s giving Biden over 100 days to start really dropping what he has. And if he has nothing, I’m on the record of saying I put my reputation on the line regarding Durham.”
And I’m putting mine on record regarding the elections of 2022 and 2024. It’s up to those reading this to prove me right. (Don’t let me down.)
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now, editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Donnie Claycomb, 27, of Limestone, West Virginia., who has been mining for 6 years, stands in front of an American flag prior to an event with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt at the Harvey Mine in Sycamore, Pennsylvania, on April 13, 2017. (Justin Merriman/Getty Images)
Climate Change and the Energy Transition Demand a US Mining Revolution
Commentary
“Today, the data shows a looming mismatch between the world’s strengthened climate ambitions and the availability of critical minerals that are essential to realizing those ambitions,” says Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency (IEA).
Yet, the United States and the world are in the midst of a great “energy transition” to fight climate change—one intended as a complete transformation of our energy sector, from production to transportation to utilization. We are told that this journey will help us move away from oil, coal, and natural gas to a world dominated by windmills, solar panels, and electric cars.
This will surely be a herculean challenge: oil, coal, and gas meet over 80 percent of America’s current energy needs, while wind and solar supply just 4 percent. The United States has over 270 million cars that run on oil; it has just 2 million that use electricity.
The hard truth: an energy system powered by these “green” technologies differs enormously from one fueled by traditional hydrocarbon resources. It goes routinely unmentioned, for instance, that the energy transition will require an immense mining revolution for the raw materials needed to manufacture green-energy technologies.
Renewables and electric cars are far more mineral-intensive than their conventional counterparts—so much so that many green-energy advocates have been forced to contradict their own positions because they opposed large-scale mining and mineral extraction.
The IEA’s new report, “The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions” (pdf), explains all this quite clearly. The IEA notes that a typical electric car requires six times the mineral inputs of a conventional car, and an onshore wind plant requires nine times more mineral resources than a natural gas-fired power plant. Demand for a long list of minerals is already starting to surge as clean-energy transitions gain momentum.
The types of minerals required vary by technology. In terms of improving performance, longevity, and energy density, lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and graphite are key to the batteries used in electric cars and the backup-storage systems needed to compensate for the natural intermittency of wind and solar power. The 17 listed rare-earth elements are integral for permanent magnets used in wind turbines and electric car motors. More quietly but just as importantly, these critical materials are also ingrained in the technologies that enable the U.S. national security apparatus.
Since 2010, the average amount of minerals needed for a new unit of power generation capacity has increased by 50 percent—and that’s just to bring wind and solar to a 10 percent share of the world’s electricity (and 4 percent of all energy).
The changes needed for the world to meet net-zero carbon by 2050 are simply staggering. Per the IEA:
By 2030, the world must add more than 1,000 gigawatts of wind and solar power capacity annually—only slightly less than the entire electric power system in the United States uses today.
Electric passenger cars must reach 60 percent of new sales by 2030, while half of heavy trucks purchased by 2035 must be electrical.
Indeed, a global energy transition like the one President Joe Biden insists upon will send the need for critical materials skyrocketing by 2040:
Lithium: +4,200 percent
Graphite: +2,500 percent
Nickel: +1,900 percent
Rare-earths: +700 percent
The United States is setting itself up for major geopolitical risk: according to the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, China provides more than 85 percent of the world’s rare-earths and holds 67 percent of the global supply of scarce metals and minerals. The United States itself imports some 80 percent of its rare-earths from China.
China also controls the supply chains, utilizing its widening Belt and Road Initiative that now encompasses 45 countries (more aptly termed “partners”). We have already seen the devastation that such Chinese supply dominance can bring. If we don’t start thinking more strategically, we are on a path toward cartel dependence. Given the urgency of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, this is a possibility that we simply cannot afford.
America’s energy transition must therefore center on a domestic mining revolution.
Since 2008, the shale revolution has demonstrated how quickly we can transform energy markets through advanced technologies. As RealClear showed in October, expanding our mining capabilities enjoys bipartisan support. The United States has far more stringent environmental regulations and standards for ethically responsible mining than our competitors. Congo, for example, the world’s main supplier of the cobalt critical for electric cars, uses child labor. China uses forced labor for the production of solar panels.
Thus, a U.S. mining and manufacturing revolution for renewables and electric cars should be strongly promoted by private firms like BlackRock, and by foundations and NGOs that claim to care so much about environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) (pdf).
Biden has linked his American Jobs Plan to green energy, but his vision won’t materialize without the necessary raw materials. It has been projected that the United States has access to $6 trillion–$7 trillion in mineral resources, but we need a more streamlined permitting process.
For example, large lithium resources have been identified in Arkansas, California, Nevada, North Carolina, and Utah. The IEA wants the United States to start massive domestic development now: today’s mineral supply and investment plans fall far short of what’s needed to transform the energy sector, raising the risk of delayed or more expensive energy transitions. Higher costs will erode public support. Renewables are already confronting input issues from various angles.
Extracting the raw materials and manufacturing the technologies here at home must become a non-negotiable pillar of America’s energy and climate goals. It is a project that deserves the support of both Democrats and Republicans.
From RealClearWire.
Jude Clemente is the editor at RealClearEnergy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~A Hearty Summer Reading Recommendation: ‘Armstrong Rides Again!’
Commentary
It’s been a rough year, to say the least, with a global pandemic, the election of the most dangerous, leftist presidential administration ever, and a media and institutional elite in this country who are essentially Marxist functionaries.
Summer and beach reading might provide some needed relief. But before you pack your bags and head to the sun and the sand, here’s a recommendation for a fun book to take along.
It’s a western like no other (expect maybe its prequel, “Armstrong,” which I read and much enjoyed a couple of years ago). Written by H.W. Crocker III, it’s called “Armstrong Rides Again!” and it imagines the continuing adventures of George Armstrong Custer after he survived the Battle of the Little Bighorn and became an incognito marshal and soldier of fortune.
In this tale, he meets up with a few real-life characters such as Black Bart and Ambrose Bierce and gets involved in an entirely make-believe Latin American civil war. The book is action-packed—a real page turner—and hilarious at the same time.
Not only does this book provide recreational distraction from deeply troubling headlines and the cares of the day but it has, beneath the surface, a surprisingly deep and affirming conservative message—one that doesn’t interfere with its entertainment value. If anything, it adds to it, because you know the author is on your side. (I know this for certain because, full disclosure, Harry Crocker is a friend of mine.)
“Armstrong” was great, but “Armstrong Rides Again!” is one of those cases where the sequel is even better. In “Armstrong,” the conservative themes were subtler; here, they are more direct, but in an amusing way, as in the comical monologues of the ruler of the imaginary Latin American country.
There’s a lot in this book about the nature of a just government, loyalty, religion, the fetishization of “science” (what could be more timely?), the hypocrisy and self-serving nature of the liberal establishment, the essential importance of history and patriotism—all as retold by our incomparably courageous narrator, George Armstrong Custer, who battles American Indians, revolutionaries, and spies with equal aplomb while matching wits with his own on-again, off-again ally: the sardonic, skeptical martial Ambrose Bierce.
You’ll also meet a priest who designs submarines; a former Confederate officer-turned-federal agent; a multilingual, theologically minded American Indian scout; a suave, villainous turncoat whom the modern reader might liken to certain modern-day “principled conservatives”; and, of course, the Latin American ruler El Caudillo. Picture Donald Trump as the head of a Latin American monarchy and you might get some idea of what the character is like; he’s the man whose counterrevolutionary cause Custer joins.
The book, written as a letter to Custer’s wife, Libbie, is endlessly quotable, but perhaps these opening paragraphs will be enough to entice you: “I write this from a study with a window overlooking the ships in San Francisco Bay. Beside me, smoking a cigar and criticizing my every word, is Major Ambrose Bierce, the journalist. He would rather tell this tale himself—he is the professional writer after all—but as you know, dearest Libbie, I can turn a handsome phrase myself, and this is our tale, Bierce’s and mine, and would not have happened had we not crossed paths (and swords), and I can tell it plainly, unadorned by journalistic exaggeration.
“My last letter chronicled how I liberated Bloody Gulch, Montana—and a fine, rousing story it was. But it left you hanging precipitously wondering what happened next. Now I can tell you.
“I had to flee. The U.S. Cavalry was on its way—and much as I love the Cavalry, I had to preserve my anonymity. A sorrowing world believes I am dead, and I cannot disabuse it of that mournful conclusion until I can prove that my men and I were betrayed into catastrophe at the Little Bighorn.”
Who could stop reading after that! Do yourself a favor. Buy this book; let it entertain you while reminding you of the things that matter most in life; and pass it along to your older kids. They’ll get a kick out of it, too. As Andrew Breitbart famously said, “Politics is downstream from culture.” Isn’t it nice to have some popular culture of our own for a change? Thank you, Harry. Long may Armstrong ride!
David Limbaugh has practiced law for almost 40 years and is a political commentator who has appeared on hundreds of television and radio shows. He is a nationally syndicated columnist and author. His latest book is “Guilty by Reason of Insanity: Why the Democrats Must Not Win.” His website is DavidLimbaugh.com.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The Middle East Dispute Is About Religion, Not Land
Commentary
If you’ve seen videos of recent attacks on Jews in New York City, Los Angeles, London, and elsewhere, you may have missed a very revealing aspect of those attacks. They were almost always—as they have been for decades—accompanied by curses such as, “F— the Jews.”
Now, given that the perpetrators are almost always Muslims—whether immigrants or children of immigrants from an Arab or other Muslim country—two questions present themselves:
Why attack American or French or British Jews? And why curse “the Jews”? In other words, given that the recent wars have been between Hamas and Israel, why aren’t these attacks outside of Israel on Israelis and Israeli institutions? And why level curses at “the Jews”?
The answer is this: The Muslims who seek Israel’s destruction do so because Israel is Jewish, not because Israel occupies the West Bank or Gaza.
First, the Muslim world sought Israel’s destruction from the day Israel was established in May 1948, before it occupied a centimeter of the West Bank or Gaza.
Second, Israel does not occupy Gaza. Israel withdrew completely from Gaza 16 years ago.
Third, the Palestinians rejected a state of their own five times:
Rejection No. 1: In 1937, the British Peel Commission offered the Arabs 80 percent of the geographical area known as Palestine. The Jews were offered 20 percent. The Arabs rejected it.
Rejection No. 2: In 1947, the Arabs rejected the United Nations partition plan.
Rejection No. 3: In 1967, in the course of defeating the attempt by Egypt, Syria and Jordan to destroy Israel, Israel conquered the West Bank from Jordan, Gaza from Egypt and the Golan Heights from Syria. Most Israelis had no interest in retaining Gaza or almost any part of the West Bank except for East Jerusalem, the Jewish city in which Jews have lived for 3,000 years, from 1,400 years before Muhammad was born. The Palestinians, as the Arabs of Palestine came to be known, and all the Arab states rejected partition and peace.
Rejection No. 4: In 2000, at Camp David, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak offered Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat a Palestinian state in all of Gaza and 94 percent of the West Bank with East Jerusalem as its capital. But Arafat rejected the offer. In the words of U.S. President Bill Clinton, Arafat was “here 14 days and said no to everything.”
Rejection No. 5: In 2008, Israel tried again. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert went even further than Ehud Barak had, expanding the peace offer to include additional land to sweeten the deal. The Palestinians said no, again.
The reason for all these Palestinian/Arab rejections of a state of their own was that it meant a Jewish state in the Middle East still existed.
The Middle East dispute has never been about land. Israel is the size of New Jersey. It is slightly larger than El Salvador. If it were the size of Manhattan, the Palestinians and many Muslim states would still seek its destruction. There are 22 Arab states in the Middle East, but there is no room for one Jewish state. There is even a state with a Palestinian majority: Jordan. The issue is not land. The issue is religion.
Why is Iran wholly preoccupied with destroying Israel? It has nothing to do with Muslim solidarity; the Iranians don’t give a damn about Palestinians. It is entirely about hatred of Jews and the Jewish state. If the Iranians cared about fellow Muslims, they would be targeting China, which is accused by the United States and other Western countries of committing genocide against the Uyghurs—a predominately Muslim ethnic group that lives in China—a charge that includes forced sterilization of Uyghur women.
Westerners want to believe it is about land—in part because they are secular and think in secular terms. And in part because they need to believe that the dispute is about land. Only then can they blame Israel. If it were about a Muslim desire to destroy the Jewish state, they could no longer blame Israel. Even worse: They would have to blame Islamist fanaticism.
Dennis Prager is a nationally syndicated radio talk-show host and columnist.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~China’s Snub of US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin Is Our Problem, and Beijing’s
Commentary
U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin has repeatedly requested, since Biden’s presidency, a meeting with China’s top military officer, only to be rebuffed, according to information revealed by U.S. defense officials in a May 21 Financial Times report. Beijing’s snub of Mr. Austin is being interpreted by some, optimistically, as a petty bureaucratic rivalry. However, the dispute indicates dangerously self-defeating behavior on the part of both Beijing and Washington D.C., just as military tensions are increasing between the United States and allies on one side, and China and its allies, on the other.
The United States is showing weakness by seeking military meetings with China, and China is broadcasting aggression through its imperious approach to America’s leading defense official. The combination sets conditions for a Chinese overstep, and American militarized response.
Tensions with China include those over Taiwan, the South and East China Seas, China’s territorial transgressions against India, Myanmar (Burma), and Bhutan, China’s kidnapping of foreigners, including the approximately 900-day illegal detention of Canada’s Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor, the COVID-19 pandemic, the Uyghur genocide, and continued intellectual property theft from the United States valued as high as $600 billion annually. Xi Jinping appears particularly focused against Taiwan, whose air defense identification zone (ADIZ) suffered a record number of Chinese military incursions in March. This year, China’s air force simulated attacks on the U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt aircraft carrier.
The list of U.S. and allied grievances with Beijing is so high as to increase frustration significantly in Washington, and in particular at the Pentagon. The U.S. military’s strength, along with its commitment to human rights, a system of free and independent nation-states, and international law, give it a special responsibility to protect Americans and world order, which it has been attempting to do against would-be dictators from Joseph Stalin in the 1930s to Saddam Hussein and the Taliban in the 21st century.
China should be jumping at the chance to engage with Biden’s top defense official, if nothing else to gauge his level of frustration and the risk of war. Yet, Beijing is not only skipping the opportunity to meet Mr. Austin, but humiliating him and his team, including President Biden, publicly.
Mr. Austin’s imbroglio indicates that Xi Jinping is not reversing his belligerent course. Since Biden became president, Xi has publicly threatened war against Taiwan, and against the United States in an only slightly more veiled manner. The public nature of Xi’s threats is relatively new, though according to Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, he made a private threat against the U.S. ally in 2017.
According to the Financial Times, Secretary Austin made three requests to speak directly with General Xu Qiliang, China’s most senior military official. Three individuals briefed on the matter said China refused to engage. A U.S. defense official told the FT, “The Chinese military has not been responsive” to requests for an Austin-Xu meeting. Instead, the regime offered Mr. Austin a lower-ranking officer, Wei Fenghe, who does not sit on the 25-member ruling politburo.
Chinese vice chairman of the Central Military Commission Xu Qiliang attends the opening ceremony of the National People’s Congress at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on March 5, 2016. (WANG ZHAO/AFP via Getty Images)
General Mark Milley, Chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, has also not spoken to his counterpart since early January, just before Joe Biden was sworn in as president.
China’s bureaucratic protocol issues with meeting U.S. military officials appears to be a persistent problem. Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for East Asia Heino Klinck told the Financial Times that agreement on protocol for meetings with China was always challenging. Klinck, who has eight years of experience living and working in the Asia-Pacific area, attributed the bureaucratic impasse to the different military structures of the two countries. I disagree.
More likely, China is attempting to intimidate, or assert symbolic dominance over, the United States by withholding its top leadership from meetings with the top leadership of the United States and other countries. By doing so, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) seeks to establish that the United States and other countries are subordinate, not equal, to China. Exceptions are made when countries are particularly submissive, in which case Xi Jinping and his top lieutenants might “grant” an audience. Exceptions can also be made towards powers seen as dangerous or highly necessary to China.
That domineering approach would be consistent with China’s historical view of itself as the ”central kingdom” (zhongguo, 中国) ruling over “all under heaven” (tianxia, 天下). There is a blurring of the concept of the Chinese state, and the world, here, that clashes with Western notions of the clearly-demarcated system of Westphalian states, but does not clash with the imperialism that, since the early-to-mid 20th century, the United States and allies have rejected.
The terms “Chinese” and “China” are also subject to a historical fluidity that unfortunately allows intellectually for China to claim new territories and peoples, for example Tibetans and Uyghurs, and turn them into “Chinese” living in “China.” Americans and other liberal Westerners have done the same in their own territories, for example against Native Americans in the 19th century, but less so in and after the 20th century.
Conversely, Xi Jinping appears to still be living in a 19th-century world in which might makes right, and in which he has a chance at avenging past wrongs against “China” by returning the country to its “rightful” place as the central kingdom of a global empire. Beijing does not seem to demonstrate equal respect for other members of the international system, especially its neighbors, and is using incrementalism (the salami slicing tactic identified by Thomas Schelling) to take their territory. China’s recent protocol issues with the Pentagon are indicative of the Xi regime’s imperialistic mindset.
But the CCP’s snub of Mr. Austin is also a mistake of our own making. The Secretary should never have sought a meeting in the first place. Neither should former Secretary of Defense James Mattis have done so in 2018, when he managed to meet Xu Qiliang in Beijing. The Pentagon’s readout of that meeting notes that “Secretary Mattis acknowledged potential areas of cooperation, including shared interest in the denuclearization of North Korea.” There was no mention of a like interest in “cooperation” by Mr. Xu.
U.S. secretaries of defense who placate foreign enemies with meetings broadcast weakness, and open themselves up to compromise. Mr. Mattis, for example, is now working for Cohen Group, which is led by former Secretary of Defense William Cohen. The group opened two offices in China in 2006 and 2007. Mr. Austin’s apparent desperation to meet with Chinese officials could be seen by Xi Jinping as a similar attempt at obtaining personal gain.
The better American military approach to the Xi regime is to leave diplomacy to the State Department, and if China gets too close, prepare for battle. This is the image we need of our military. Aloof and dangerous. That’s the only way to retain the CCP’s respect and keep it at a distance. When they come asking for a meeting, refuse.
Against a highly aggressive adversary like Beijing, projecting strength includes inspiring fear in the enemy. Xi understands the tactic only too well. As should be clear from the recent snub of Mr. Austin, Beijing is starting to use it against us.
Anders Corr has a BA/MA in political science from Yale University (2001) and a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a Principal at Corr Analytics Inc., Publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Biden’s ‘Gas Tax’ Is a Pain at the Pump
Commentary
One of my early memories, and not a happy one, is sitting in gas lines in the 1970s. My parents would rustle me out of bed early on frigid February mornings, and we’d pack into the Ford and speed over to the gas station.
When we got there, there would often be six or seven cars in front of us. Sometimes, we’d wait 20 or 30 minutes for a fill-up. And we’d notice that every few weeks, there would be someone on a ladder posting a higher price on the 20-foot-high sign. It always sticks in my memory because even though I was only about 12 years old, it was a shocking indicator that something terribly wrong was going on in our country. I couldn’t understand how a bunch of Saudi oil sheikhs could hijack the greatest nation on earth.
Fast-forward four decades, and for the first time in my life, we had a president, Donald Trump, who made America energy-independent again. In the last week of December 2020, the United States imported zero oil from Saudi Arabia. Hooray!
In the wake of the cyberattack on Colonial Pipeline, one of our major domestic energy pipelines, the 1970s malaise was brought back into focus. In many parts of the Southeast, there was no gas to be had at any price because of the supply disruptions. Alas, this wasn’t just a result of some evil foreign hackers. This is the predictable outcome when we have a president who teams with the radical green left and declares war on American energy.
President Joe Biden has said that he wants to eliminate American fossil fuels over the next 15 years. He’s doing his best to keep that promise, starting with his cancellation of the Keystone XL pipeline. (How deranged does that seem today?) A few weeks later, he stopped oil and gas drilling on federal lands. We have some $30 trillion to $50 trillion of energy resources underneath federal lands and federal waters.
This “America last” energy policy isn’t just a frontal assault on our economy, transportation system, and national security. It’s a policy that imposes a hefty tax on the poorest people. According to AAA, when Biden was elected, the average gasoline price across America was $2.20 a gallon. Since then, the price has risen every month, and on May 15 of this year, the average gas price hit $3.04.
Make no mistake: this 84-cent-per-gallon price hike is a highly regressive “tax” on motorists, just as lower gas prices during the Trump administration were the equivalent of a tax cut for consumers. I doubt that billionaire Democratic donors such as Mike Bloomberg, Tom Steyer, or Bill and Melinda Gates, who are significant financial supporters of the war on fossil fuels, care much that gas prices are rising.
But for the rest of us, when the price of a fill-up rises by $10 or $12, that’s a genuine financial hardship. That’s especially true for those on fixed incomes or earning less than $50,000 a year. Yes, indeed, gas prices are often out of the direct control of the president. Biden didn’t cause the Colonial Pipeline sabotage. But if you want people to stop using oil and gas, what better way to achieve that than by making it much more expensive to buy? What did the White House brainiacs think would happen to gas prices if we stop building pipelines, erect new Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to kill oil and gas exploration from Texas up to North Dakota, and outlaw drilling in many areas of the country?
Biden seems oblivious to all this pain as he visits electric car plants and gleefully test-drives these new vehicles. That’s fine. But even if every car bought starting tomorrow was battery-operated, and even if people could afford the $50,000-plus price tag, we’d still need gas for vehicles already on the road for at least the next 20 years. Where are we going to get it? The Saudis?
Meanwhile, the poorest people are now paying his green tax at the gas pump. Most amazingly, Biden still has a straight face while saying that no one with an income of less than $400,000 a year will pay higher taxes under his economic plan.
Come on, Joe. Get out of the Washington bubble, and go to a gas station. People of all incomes are paying your gas “tax.”
Stephen Moore is an economics journalist, author, and columnist. The latest of many books he co-authored is “Trumponomics: Inside the America First Plan to Revive Our Economy.” Currently, Moore is also the chief economist for the Institute for Economic Freedom and Opportunity.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Unsettled: What Climate Science Tells Us, What It Doesn’t, And Why It Matters, by Steven E. Koonin
Commentary
On Jan. 8, 2014, at New York University in Brooklyn, there occurred a unique event in the annals of global warming: nearly eight hours of structured debate between three climate scientists supporting the consensus on manmade global warming and three climate scientists who dispute it, moderated by a team of six leading physicists from the American Physical Society (APS) led by Dr. Steven Koonin, a theoretical physicist at New York University. The debate (pdf), hosted by the APS, revealed consensus-supporting climate scientists harboring doubts and uncertainties and admitting to holes in climate science—in marked contrast to the emphatic messaging of bodies such as Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
At one point, Koonin read an extract from the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report released the previous year. Computer model-simulated responses to forcings—the term used by climate scientists for changes of energy flows into and out of the climate system, such as changes in solar radiation, volcanic eruptions, and changes in the concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere—“can be scaled up or down.” This scaling included greenhouse gas forcings.
Some forcings in some computer models had to be scaled down to match computer simulations to actual climate observations. But when it came to making centennial projections on which governments rely and drive climate policy, the scaling factors were removed, probably resulting in a 25 to 30 percent over-prediction of the 2100 warming.
The ensuing dialogue between Koonin and Dr. William Collins of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory—a lead author of the climate model evaluation chapter in the Fifth Assessment Report—revealed something more troubling and deliberate than holes in scientific knowledge:
Dr. Koonin: But if the model tells you that you got the response to the forcing wrong by 30 percent, you should use that same 30 percent factor when you project out a century.
Dr. Collins: Yes. And one of the reasons we are not doing that is we are not using the models as [a] statistical projection tool.
Dr. Koonin: What are you using them as?
Dr. Collins: Well, we took exactly the same models that got the forcing wrong and which got sort of the projections wrong up to 2100.
Dr. Koonin: So, why do we even show centennial-scale projections?
Dr. Collins: Well, I mean, it is part of the [IPCC] assessment process.
Koonin was uncommonly well-suited to lead the APS climate workshop. He has a deep understanding of computer models, which have become the workhorses of climate science. As a young man, Koonin wrote a paper on computer modeling of nuclear reaction in stars and taught a course on computational physics at Caltech. In the early 1990s, he was involved in a program using satellites to measure the Earth’s albedo—that is, the reflection of incoming solar radiation back into space. As a student at Caltech in the late 1960s, he was taught by Nobel physicist Richard Feynman and absorbed what Koonin calls Feynman’s “absolute intellectual honesty.”
On becoming BP’s chief scientist in 2004, Koonin became part of the wider climate change milieu. Assignments included explaining the physics of man-made global warming to Prince Philip at a dinner in Buckingham Palace. In 2009, Koonin was appointed an under-secretary at the Department of Energy in the Obama administration.
The APS climate debate was the turning point in Koonin’s thinking about climate change and consensus climate science (“The Science”). “I began by believing that we were in a race to save the planet from climate catastrophe,” Koonin writes in his new book, “Unsettled: What Climate Science Tells Us, What It Doesn’t, And Why It Matters.” “I came away from the APS workshop not only surprised, but shaken by the realization that climate science was far less mature than I had supposed.” “Unsettled” is an authoritative primer on the science of climate change that lifts the lid on The Science and finds plenty that isn’t as it should be. “As a scientist,” writes Koonin, “I felt the scientific community was letting the public down by not telling the whole truth plainly.” Koonin’s aim is to right that wrong.
Koonin’s indictment of The Science starts with its reliance on unreliable computer models. Usefully describing the earth’s climate, writes Koonin, is “one of the most challenging scientific simulation problems.” Models divide the atmosphere into pancake-shaped boxes of around 100km wide and one kilometer deep. But the upward flow of energy from tropical thunder clouds, which is more than thirty times larger than that from human influences, occurs over smaller scales than the programmed boxes. This forces climate modellers to make assumptions about what happens inside those boxes. As one modeller confesses, “it’s a real challenge to model what we don’t understand.”
Inevitably, this leaves considerable scope for modelers’ subjective views and preferences. A key question climate models are meant to solve is estimating the equilibrium climate sensitivity of carbon dioxide (ECS), which aims to tell us by how much temperatures rise from a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Yet in 2020, climate modelers from Germany’s Max Planck Institute admitted to tuning their model by targeting an ECS of about 3° Centigrade. “Talk about cooking the books,” Koonin comments.
The proof of the pudding, as they say, is in the eating. Self-evidently, computer projections can’t be tested against a future that’s yet to happen, but they can be tested against climates present and past. Climate models can’t even agree on what the current global average temperature is. “One particularly jarring feature is that the simulated average global surface temperature,” Koonin notes, “varies among models by about 3°C, three times greater than the observed value of the twentieth century warming they’re purporting to describe and explain.”
Another embarrassing feature of climate models concerns the earlier of the two twentieth-century warmings from 1910 to 1940, when human influences were much smaller. On average, models give a warming rate of about half of what was actually observed. The failure of the latest models to warm fast enough in those decades suggest that it’s possible, even likely, that internal climate variability is a significant contributor to the warming of recent decades, Koonin suggests. “That the models can’t reproduce the past is a big red flag—it erodes confidence in their projections of future climates.” Neither is it reassuring that for the years after 1960, the latest generation of climate models show a larger spread and greater uncertainty than earlier ones—implying that, far from advancing, The Science has been going backwards. That is not how science is meant to work.
The second part of Koonin’s indictment concerns the distortion, misrepresentation, and mischaracterization of climate data to support a narrative of climate catastrophism based on increasing frequency of extreme weather events. As an example, Koonin takes a “shockingly misleading” claim and associated graph in the United States government’s 2017 Climate Science Special Report that the number of high-temperature records set in the past two decades far exceeds the number of low-temperature records across the 48 contiguous states. Koonin demonstrates that the sharp uptick in highs over the last two decades is an artifact of a methodology chosen to mislead. After re-running the data, record highs show a clear peak in the 1930s, but there is no significant trend over the 120 years of observations starting in 1895, or even since 1980, when human influences on the climate grew strongly. In contrast, the number of record cold temperatures has declined over more than a century, with the trend accelerating after 1985.
Notes Koonin, “temperature extremes in the contiguous U.S. have become less common and somewhat milder since the late nineteenth century.” Similarly, a key message in the 2014 National Climate Assessment of an upward trend in hurricane frequency and intensity, repeated in the 2017 assessment, is contradicted 728 pages later by a statement buried in an appendix stating that there has been no significant trend in the global number of tropical cyclones “nor has any trend been identified in the number of U.S. land-falling hurricanes.”
That might surprise many politicians. “Over the past thirty years, the incidence of natural disasters has dramatically increased,” Treasury secretary Janet Yellen falsely asserted last month in a pitch supporting the Biden administration’s infrastructure package. “We are now in a situation where climate change is an existential risk to our future economy and way of life,” she claimed. The sacrifice of scientific truth in the form of objective empirical data for the sake of a catastrophist climate narrative is plain to see. As Koonin summarizes the case: “Even as human influences have increased fivefold since 1950 and the globe has warmed modestly, most severe weather phenomena remain within past variability. Projections of future climate and weather events rely on models demonstrably unfit for the purpose.”
Koonin also has sharp words for the policy side of the climate change consensus, which asserts that although climate change is an existential threat, solving it by totally decarbonizing society is straightforward and relatively painless. “Two decades ago, when I was in the private sector,” Koonin writes, “I learned to say that the goal of stabilizing human influences on the climate was ‘a challenge,’ while in government it was talked about as ‘an opportunity.’ Now back in academia, I can forthrightly call it ‘a practical impossibility.’”
Unlike many scientists and most politicians, Koonin displays a sure grasp of the split between developed and developing nations, for whom decarbonization is a luxury good that they can’t afford. The fissure dates back to the earliest days of the U.N. climate process at the end of the 1980s. Indeed, it’s why developing nations insisted on the U.N. route as opposed to an intergovernmental one that produced the 1987 Montreal Protocol on ozone-depleting substances. “The economic betterment of most of humanity in the coming decades will drive energy demand even more strongly than population growth,” Koonin says. “Who will pay the developing world not to emit? I have been posing that simple question to many people for more than fifteen years and have yet to hear a convincing answer.”
The most unsettling part of “Unsettled” concerns science and the role of scientists. “Science is one of the very few human activities—perhaps the only one—in which errors are systematically criticized and fairly often, in time, corrected,” Karl Popper wrote nearly six decades ago. That condition does not pertain in climate science, where errors are embedded in a political narrative and criticism is suppressed. In a recent essay, the philosopher Matthew B. Crawford observes that the pride of science as a way of generating knowledge—unlike religion—is to be falsifiable. That changes when science is pressed into duty as authority in order to absolve politicians of responsibility for justifying their policy choices (“the science says,” we’re repeatedly told). “Yet what sort of authority would it be that insists its own grasp of reality is merely provisional?” asks Crawford. “For authority to be really authoritative, it must claim an epistemic monopoly of some kind, whether of priestly or scientific knowledge.”
At the outset of “Unsettled,” Feynman’s axiom of absolute intellectual honesty is contrasted with climate scientist Stephen Schneider’s “double ethical bind.” On the one hand, scientists are ethically bound by the scientific method to tell the truth. On the other, they are human beings who want to reduce the risk of potentially disastrous climate change. “Each of us has to decide what the right balance is between being effective and being honest,” Schneider said.
“Being effective” helps explain the pressure on climate scientists to conform to The Science and the emergence of a climate science knowledge monopoly. Its function is, as Crawford puts it, the manufacture of a product—political legitimacy—which, in turn, requires that competing views be delegitimized and driven out of public discourse through enforcement of a “moratorium on the asking of questions.” This sees climate scientist gatekeepers deciding who can and cannot opine on climate science. “Please, save us from retired physicists who think they’re smarter and wiser than everyone in climate science,” tweeted Gavin Schmidt, NASA acting senior climate advisor, about Koonin and his book. “I agree with pretty much everything you wrote,” a chair of a university earth sciences department tells Koonin, “but I don’t dare say that in public.” Another scientist criticizes Koonin for giving ammunition to “the deniers,” and a third writes an op-ed urging New York University to reconsider Koonin’s position there. It goes wider than scientists. Facebook has suppressed a “Wall Street Journal” review of “Unsettled.” Likewise, “Unsettled” remains unreviewed by the “New York Times,” the “Washington Post” (though it carried an op-ed by Marc Thiessen based on an interview with Koonin) and other dailies, which would prefer to treat Koonin’s reasoned climate dissent as though it doesn’t exist.
The moratorium on the asking of questions represents the death of science as understood and described by Popper, a victim of the conflicting requirements of political utility and scientific integrity. Many scientists take this lying down. Koonin won’t. For his forensic skill and making his findings accessible to non-specialists, Koonin has written the most important book on climate science in decades.
From RealClearWire.
Rupert Darwall is a senior fellow of the RealClear Foundation and author of “Green Tyranny: Exposing the Totalitarian Roots of the Climate Industrial Complex” and the report “The Climate Noose: Business, Net Zero, and the IPCC’s Anti-Capitalism.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The Jewish Lobby Versus the Israel Lobby
Commentary
“Why is the Israel lobby attacking Ilhan Omar?” and other Americans who are critical of Israel’s conduct in the recent Israel–Gaza war, asked The Week.
Talk of the Israel lobby resurrects accusations that Jewish organizations in the United States are acting against the best interests of the United States. The Israel lobby, as defined in an explosive 2007 book, “The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy,” is made up of a uniquely powerful “loose coalition of individuals and organizations who actively work to steer U.S. foreign policy in a pro-Israel direction.”
The Israel lobby certainly is powerful, as Rep. Omar (D-Minn.), Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), and Israel’s many other current critics correctly claim. It includes not only Jewish NGOs such as AIPAC, the Anti-Defamation League, and Zionist Organization of America but also Jewish billionaires such as Michael Bloomberg and Miriam Adelson, and a long list of prominent Jewish individuals such as Alan Dershowitz, who has written numerous books on Israel’s legitimacy, Dennis Prager, whose PragerU videos have amassed 5 billion views, and journalist Ben Shapiro of The Daily Wire, one of America’s largest conservative news sites.
But contrary to the 2007 book’s assertion that “the bulk of the lobby is comprised of Jewish Americans,” Jews don’t represent the bulk of this lobby.
Non-Jew Ted Cruz, the Texas senator who led the recent effort in the U.S. Senate to muster support for Israel, and non-Jew Ron DeSantis of Florida, who dubs himself the “most pro-Israel governor” in America, are among the majority of non-Jewish Republican lawmakers—almost 90 percent among senators—who champion Israel as an indispensable ally of America. Republican Jews are all but invisible among the 535 members of the U.S. Congress, which has but two Jewish Republican members in the House of Representatives and no Jewish Republican senators. The Israel lobby also includes the politically powerful Christian evangelicals, 75 percent of whom champion Israel.
The small number of Jews in the United States—they account for about 2 percent of the population—don’t dominate the pro-Israel lobby. Non-Jews do.
In contrast, Jewish Americans do dominate the anti-Israel lobby. Human Rights Watch, one of the world’s largest human rights organizations, has long had Israel in its cross-hairs, most recently in a report that concludes Israel’s actions against Palestinians “are so severe that they amount to the crimes against humanity of apartheid and persecution.” Human Rights Watch is led by a Jew, Kenneth Roth.
NGOs J Street, led by Jeremy Ben-Ami, a Jew, and Americans for Peace Now, led by Hadar Susskind, a Jew, are go-to groups for anti-Israel Democrats. Mondoweiss, the leading news blog dedicated to Israeli–Palestinian issues, and considered by many to be antisemitic, was founded by and edited by a Jew, Philip Weiss. Noam Chomsky, the Jewish MIT professor known as “the father of modern linguistics,” has arguably been Israel’s fiercest critic over the decades, so much so that Israel in 2010 banned his entry.
Jews are also major funders of the anti-Israel lobby. Foundations controlled by George Soros, a Jew, donated $100 million to Human Rights Watch and tens of millions more to a raft of other anti-Israel organizations (pdf). The Sanger Family Foundation, run by Deborah Sanger, a Jew, was the early backer of J Street. The Unz Foundation, headed by Ron Unz, a Jew, has funded high-profile critics of Jews and of Israel. The Foundation for Middle East Peace, a funder of anti-Israel advocacy, is run by a Jew, Lara Friedman. Jewish-run organizations also fund anti-Israel, pro-Palestinian politicians such as Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Omar, Ocasio-Cortez, and Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.).
In Congress, no Jews in the Democratic leadership condemned their colleagues’ demonization of Israel as it defended itself against Gaza’s launch of 4,000 missiles against Israeli civilians, even though the U.S. government itself designates Gaza a terrorist state. Rather a Jew, Bernie Sanders, led the condemnation of Israel in the U.S. Senate.
The mainstream media—often characterized as controlled by Jews in the Israel lobby—is anything but. Pro-Israel coverage can reliably be found on Fox News, where non-Jewish anchors such as Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Tucker Carlson, and Shannon Bream are employed by the non-Jewish Murdoch family. And at the Wall Street Journal, which is also Murdoch-owned, and where non-Jewish Paul Gigot is editor of the editorial pages.
In contrast, none of the major Jewish-owned or Jewish-run media organizations can be considered pro-Israel: CNN (run by Jeff Zucker, its Jewish president), ABC (owned by Walt Disney, which is run by Bob Iger, a Jew), ViacomCBS (chaired by Shari Redstone, its controlling shareholder and a Jew), and NBC and MSNBC (owned by Brian Roberts, a Jew, through its parent, Comcast).
The New York Times, which is owned by the Jewish Sulzberger family and which in many ways sets the tone for the rest of the media world, cast Israel as the villain in its war with Gaza and has in its stable Peter Beinart, a Jew who advocates the end of Israel as a Jewish state, and Thomas Friedman, a Jew who characterized Congressional support for Netanyahu as “bought and paid for by the Israel lobby.”
The United States has a very influential Jewish lobby that confronts a very influential Israel lobby. Conflating these two adversarial groups leads to confusion of the type The Week exemplified when it asked why Omar came in for criticism. There’s no need for confusion.
Anti-Israel Democrats side with the Jewish lobby, which endorses Omar’s belief that Israel committed “an act of terrorism” when airstrikes to take out Gaza’s missile launchers inadvertently killed civilians.
Republicans, and independents, too, according to a Morning Consult Poll, side with the overwhelmingly non-Jewish Israel lobby.
Lawrence Solomon is a columnist, an author, and the policy director of Toronto-based Probe International. @LSolomonTweets LawrenceSolomon@nextcity.com.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~How to Save a Disappointing Bottle of Wine
What do you do when you buy a bottle of wine that, for one reason or another, is not to your liking? If the wine is sound and not spoiled in any way, but you just don’t like the style, you could always cook with it.
But that’s impractical and costly. Instead, what if you could fix it in your own kitchen? Since you bought it to enjoy and don’t relish cooking with a $30 bottle of shiraz, maybe there’s a way to make it better.
This happens to me often, especially with bottles that are not undrinkable, simply disappointing. In such cases, I resort to old tricks, ones I’ve used often.
In one recent case, a wine was both a little high in alcohol, so it burned my mouth and throat, and a little sweet from the high alcohol. It tasted like it was close to 16 percent. (The label said 14.5 percent, but I seriously doubt that.)
I added about a tablespoon of spring water to our glasses: Problem solved.
Purists might be aghast at the notion of doctoring our wine, but we weren’t about to drink it the way it came out of the bottle. Water solved two problems: It didn’t alter the wine’s aroma, other than making it a little fruitier because it lowered the alcohol, which was masking some of the fruit. And it cut the heat.
Caution: Avoid using tap water. Some tap water contains chlorine and can change wine in unattractive ways. The same applies to ice cubes—a strategy that works especially well on hot days.
No, I would not put chocolate sauce in my cabernet sauvignon, but adding a little water or an ice cube isn’t very invasive.
Decades ago, I knew a woman who added a little sugar to her bone-dry white wine. It made her happy. The “sour” wine was $1.99 a bottle, and adding a bit of sugar gave her a palatable drink that was satisfying. (I do not do this!)
There is a history here. For the past 70 years or so, a drink from France called kir has been a popular aperitif. When a white wine is too tart, a tiny dose of either crème de cassis, a blackberry liqueur, or occasionally some other fruit-flavored brandy makes a delightful kir.
This same tactic also works to enliven the neutral taste of inexpensive, ordinary sparkling wines. Such drinks are called Kir Royales.
As for wines that are too soft and lack acidity, I simply chill them further or add acid back into them.
Further chilling a wine that is too soft and lacks acidity can make it more enjoyable. (Vershinin89/shutterstock)
It’s easy to determine if a wine is balanced for our palates: Just take a sip. If it seems flabby or sweet, one trick I’ve used is to add a tiny bit of citric acid to each glass.
Citric acid is inexpensive and may be found in stores that cater to home canners. A quarter teaspoon of citric acid stirred into a four-ounce glass won’t change the aroma or taste of a wine, but it will make it a bit crisper, allowing it to work better with food.
A small amount of citric acid will make a too-sweet wine a bit crisper, allowing it to work better with food. (Michelle Lee Photography/shutterstock)
Also, some restaurants serve red wines far too warm, so we often ask for an ice bucket. The idea is not to chill the red wine, just to get it closer to “cellar temperature,” which is more appropriate for proper enjoyment.
I’ve often been chided by snooty waiters, who think I’m a heathen for wanting my red wine “chilled.” I ignore such ignorance. (I’ve tried educating them, but that too often fails miserably.)
To find out more about Dan Berger and read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate webpage at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.com~Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping exchange documents during a signing ceremony following their talks at the Kremlin in Moscow on June 5, 2019. (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AFP/Getty Images)
The Dual Faces of Sino-Russian Relations
Commentary
Two recent events reveal the duality of the relationship between China and Russia.
Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin witnessed the groundbreaking ceremony of the biggest nuclear energy cooperation project between the two countries via video conferencing on May 19. Putin claimed that current Sino-Russian relations are at their best, while Xi said that the two countries will advance bilateral relations at a higher, broader, and deeper level. This event shows one face that the West is very worried about—China and Russia could be forming an alliance.
However, earlier on May 3, the Russian Great Fatherland Party, in an open letter, accused the Russian Communist Party and its top officials of receiving money and other favors from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and serving as its agents in Russia. Some analysts believe that Russian political parties often smear each other, but rarely play the China card to attack their opponents. This incident reveals the other face of the Sino-Russian relations—Russia’s great suspicion of the CCP and the deep contradictions behind its China policy.
In fact, since the end of the Cold War, the two faces of the Sino-Russian relations have often flipped over or become intertwined. Over the years, the world seems to have been more attracted to the face showing that China and Russia are allies.
For example, since June 5, 2019, Chinese state-run media Xinhua reported that when bilateral relations were upgraded to “a comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era,” especially since the pandemic breakout in 2020, China and the United States have started a new cold war, while Russia’s relations with the United States and Europe deteriorated, prompting China and Russia to work closely together.
There are other incidents that indicate that China and Russia are strengthening diplomatic ties. For example, on Oct. 22, 2020, in response to a question from the media at the Valdai Discussion Club, Putin said that the lack of a military alliance between Russia and China at the moment was not related to the attitude of the two sides, but rather to the lack of necessity. Nonetheless, such an alliance would not be ruled out in the future.
Putin’s response was rich in meaning. In February this year, for example, the Russian and Chinese foreign ministers said during a phone conversation that the strategic cooperation between the two sides is comprehensive.
Within both countries, there are voices for an alliance. Russian senior researcher Vasily Kashin wrote that Russia and China should form a military alliance immediately when there is a risk of military conflict with the United States. Since Russian companies are involved in the development of the CCP’s ballistic missile warning system, Russia and China are well-positioned to build a global missile defense network by sharing data and establishing their own partnership.
On the Chinese side, Wang Haiyun, who had been the representative of the CCP’s armed forces in the Soviet Union and Russia for nearly 10 years, also wrote (pdf) that it is necessary to upgrade the relationship between the two countries to a “near-alliance relationship”—one of “shoulder to shoulder, back to back, hand in hand, heart to heart” with a “special friendly military relationship. … Both China and Russia should be bolder and faster” in deepening military ties, he wrote.
In fact, although Russia and China insist that both sides adhere to the principle of no alliance, no confrontation, and no targeting of any third countries, Moscow and Beijing are already at least “near-allies,” according to Xinhua.
Let’s take a look at just a few examples.
Russia and China hold regular military exercises, with very close military-technical cooperation, including the exchange of military technology between the two sides. It’s noteworthy that Russia has been helping China build a missile warning system. Also, in late July 2019 and on Dec. 22, 2020, Russia and China held two strategic joint air patrols, extending their activities from the Sea of Japan to the East China Sea—this was heavily publicized by state-run media in both countries.
A Chinese H-6 bomber flies over the East China Sea in this handout picture taken by Japan Air Self-Defense Force and released by the Joint Staff Office of the Defense Ministry of Japan on July 23, 2019. (Joint Staff Office of the Defense Ministry of Japan/HANDOUT via Reuters)
Since 2018, bilateral trade between Russia and China has stayed at about $100 billion, with a new goal of $200 billion set to be achieved by 2024, according to a report by CSIS (Center for Strategic and International Studies). China has been Russia’s largest trading partner for many years, and its percentage share in Russia’s total trade volume has increased from 8.12 percent in 2013 to 15.76 percent in 2018, according to Chinese research consulting firm Qianzhan.
As the economic cooperation between China and Russia strengthens, there are three issues that should be examined.
First, the local currency settlement of Russian-Chinese trade reached 25 percent in 2020, while in 2013 and 2014, it was insignificant, merely at about 2 to 3 percent—this is the so-called “de-dollarization,” according to Chinese news portal Sina.
Second, Russian agricultural exports to China increased significantly in 2020, making agricultural trade a new bright spot of the bilateral economic and trade cooperation, which, in turn, consolidates China’s position as the top export destination for Russian agricultural products. That has extraordinary significance when considering the potential food shortage in China and the strained relations between the CCP and the world’s major food exporters, such as the United States, Australia, and Canada.
Third, the significance of the Sino-Russian energy cooperation—Xi calls it the most weighty, fruitful, and wide-ranging project between the two countries. For example, the Sino-Russian Eastern Gas Project, also known as Power of Siberia, was officially brought into operation in December 2019, with an export capacity of 38 billion cubic meters per year, equivalent to more than 30 percent of China’s natural gas imports in 2018. Meanwhile, Russia has already begun its preparation work on the Sino-Russian Western Gas Pipeline Project, Power of Siberia 2.
However, such a “strategic partnership” highly touted by the Chinese and Russian authorities cannot conceal or cover up the dirty and conflicting nature of the bilateral relations.
Here is just one example. On Feb. 25 of this year, a local resident named Vladimir Vasiliev was charged in an espionage case for collecting intelligence for China’s spy agency, and was sentenced to eight years in prison for treason by a court in Russia’s Zabaykalsky Krai in Chita. The case was different from most espionage ones—it had nothing to do with the field of science and technology, but it took place in the border area of military significance. Russia had deliberately kept the case under low profile.
So, despite the increasingly closer relationship between Russia and China, why is it that both countries plot against each other and espionage activities have become more frequent?
In fact, in terms of foreign relations, Russia has been taking a highly defensive approach to contain and counter the CCP’s growing influence, particularly disturbing the Chinese regime.
For example, Russia exported a large number of advanced weapons to India following the border conflict between India and China in 2020. Russia and India have been working to forge a new military-technical cooperation program for the next 10 years. In addition, Russia has been helping India build fifth-generation aircraft and submarines and develop highland tanks, and so on, all of which are intended to contain the CCP.
As another example, with Central Asia seen as Russia’s backyard, Russia has to counter the expansion of China’s influence there. This year, the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan has drawn more attention to the security issues in that region, and the CCP has used the newly established “5+1” mechanism to increase interaction with Central Asian countries.
On May 12, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with his counterparts of five Central Asian countries in Xi’an to “strengthen strategic mutual trust” and “advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation,” according to a press release by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On May 14, Russia’s pro-government media fiercely criticized Beijing for interfering in the internal affairs of Central Asian countries, according to a report by Voice of America (VOA). The CCP has contributed to rampant corruption in Central Asia by paying large bribes to powerful local officials, the report said. In fact, as anti-CCP sentiment in some Central Asian countries grows, Kazakhstan passed a new law on May 13 that officially bans the sale and lease of agricultural land to foreigners.
It’s no secret that there has been a tug-of-war between Russia and China over Central Asia in the past few years.
Chinese tanks parade not far from the borders of China and Mongolia in Siberia, on Sept. 13, 2018. (MLADEN ANTONOV/AFP/Getty Images)
A case in point: In September 2019, Putin visited Mongolia and the two sides signed an agreement to foster a strategic partnership. In another major move, in July 2020, Russia offered Mongolia to join the Russian-led Collective Security and Defense Organization (CSDO) to enhance bilateral relations.
The current CSDO members include Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Russia. As CSDO members, Russian-made weapons can be purchased at cheaper domestic prices. Large-scale military exercises are held annually on the territory of some member states. In recent years, Russia has brought nuclear-capable Iskander tactical missiles into Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan through joint military exercises.
If Mongolia were to join the CSDO, it would become the first non-CIS member of this organization; more importantly, it would serve as a strategic deterrent against the CCP.
From the aforementioned moves made by Russia, one can have a glimpse at its dual-faced strategy towards China.
On the one hand, Russia will maintain close relations with the CCP to boost its economy and counter the strategic pressure from the West. On the other hand, it will forge closer relationships with China’s neighboring states and Asia-Pacific countries to avoid over-reliance on the CCP and to strategically keep in check the Chinese regime’s influence and ambition.
The strategic approach that Russia has taken toward China is based on the relative strengths of the two countries.
First of all, the Russian economy has been sluggish since 2008, and the economic gap between Russia and China has widened dramatically. For example, in 2020, Russia’s GDP was about $1.46 trillion, compared to China’s $14.8 trillion, according to Statista. Secondly, Russia still perceives itself as a world power, unwilling to just be a supplier of energy and raw materials to China, and wants to be on an equal footing with it. Russia has one more advantage over China—its military technology.
The former Soviet Union’s weaponry and equipment have long been the targets of the Chinese regime, which has wanted to acquire them by purchasing, copying, or stealing. But how long can Russia hold this military technology advantage over China? According to a senior researcher at the Stockholm Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) in Sweden, Russia may have only five to ten years until China eventually catches up. When that happens, how will Russia be able to compete with China for equal status?
The Russian authorities are well aware of the inherent contradictions and flaws of their current strategy toward China. Now, if Russia can’t see the true nature of the CCP and if it continues to hold on to its dual-faced strategy in dealing with China, then Russia will be in danger.
Wang He has master’s degrees in law and history, with a focus on the international communist movement. He was a university lecturer and an executive of a large private company in China. He was imprisoned in China twice for his beliefs. Wang lives in North America now and has published commentaries on China’s current affairs and politics since 2017.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~The Long March 5B rocket, which carries China's Tianhe space station core module, lifts off from the Wenchang Space Launch Center, in southern China's Hainan province on April 29, 2021. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
Uncontrolled Chinese Rockets May Also Target the Moon
Commentary
China apparently plans to cause recurrent waves of panic by launching uncontrolled rockets that threaten people on Earth, and soon, also on the Moon.
At first, Chinese space officials thought that the country’s 20-ton Long March-5 booster stage would impact in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea on May 9, causing concern in Israel, but it instead crashed in the Indian Ocean. The Pentagon was asked if it had plans to shoot it down.
At least three more Long March-5 space launch vehicles (SLVs) will be used to complete China’s space station, another three will be needed to launch planned probes to the Moon.
There is also the prospect that China will subject future inhabitants of the Moon to the same potentially deadly drama. In both cases, it may be the lack of power or launch capacity of China’s SLVs that requires compromises that put others in danger.
China’s Long March-5 SLV can only lift about 25 tons to Low Earth Orbit (LEO), and the Tianhe space station module launched on April 29 weighed about 22 tons. It did not use a second stage to achieve orbital velocity so the large first stage had to perform this mission, but it was not equipped for controlled deorbit, meaning its descent could endanger people on Earth.
Between 2025 and 2030, China is expected to use its new “921 Rocket” which reportedly can put 27 tons into Trans-Lunar Injection (TLI), or transport to the Moon.
As China’s next-generation manned spaceship configured for lunar missions weighs about 21 tons, this means that China will require two 921 Rockets to send the manned spaceship and the manned Moon lander to rendezvous in lunar orbit.
At a major space conference in 2018, and more clearly at another in September 2020, Chinese military-space officials revealed some configurations for a manned Moon lander, an initial Moon shelter, and a large manned Moon rover that can also serve as a shelter.
While these may not be final designs, they seem to share a characteristic derived from the former Soviet Union’s aborted manned Moon program. As the Soviet’s large N-1 SLV could only put 23 tons into TLI, and it had to carry both the manned spaceship and Moon lander, the latter had to be lightweight.
One solution was to devise a special rocket stage called Block D that would decelerate and descend its 5.5 to 6.5 ton LK (Lunniy Korabyl, Lunar Craft) manned Moon lander to about 2.4 miles (4 kilometers) above the Moon. At that point, the Block D would detach from the LK and crash into the Moon.
The expendable Block D did not require the additional weight of landing legs. By comparison, the contemporary U.S. Apollo program Lunar Excursion Module (LEM) weighed 15 tons, but its descent stage made a controlled landing on the Moon.
The LK’s internal Block E engine complex would complete the landing and later return one Cosmonaut to a spaceship orbiting the Moon. China is reported to have purchased the designs for the Block E engines from their Ukrainian designers. It is likely they also gave China insights into the integral Block D engine complex.
We can infer this possibility because the Chinese manned lunar lander, shelter, and rover concepts revealed to date also employ a detachable stage just like Block D, apparently also designed to crash into the Moon.
But by the 2030s, the Moon could become a crowded place, with the United States and its Artemis Moon program partners likely building multiple Moon Bases. Based on revealed Chinese estimates, China may build up to 10 Moon bases that it will require 60 of its super heavy-lift Long March-9 SLVs between 2030 and 2035.
Furthermore, early Moon exploration and Moon Base building for the United States and China will be concentrated at the South Pole of the Moon, where there are higher concentrations of lunar ice water. This means that U.S. and Chinese Moon bases may sometimes be in close proximity.
While China’s Long March-9 super heavy SLV could put up to 50 tons into TLI, meaning larger and safer Moon lander designs could be accommodated, there remains the possibility that China could also require scores of 921 Rockets using Block D-like decent stages to build an early presence at choice South Pole lunar locations.
So, in addition to having to endure added drama from the potential danger of more Long March-5 SLV booster stages hitting populated areas of the Earth, early Moon explorers may also have to endure the danger of Chinese “Block D” descent engines impacting near or on their Moon Bases.
A Chinese refusal to modify its Long March-5 SLVs for controlled and safer descents to Earth would not bode well for a willingness to similarly modify their “Block D” Moon descent stages.
Without such modifications, it would be logical for U.S. space planners to consider both passive and active defenses for Moon Bases, like lunar laser weapons. This would violate current treaties and conventions against “militarizing” the Moon, but the alternative would be to subject U.S. government, and allied and private sector Moon personnel to the danger of Chinese “Block-D bombs.”
China, however, may desire this outcome, as it would justify the militarization of their Moon Bases already controlled by its People’s Liberation Army, making them ready to assert Chinese claims to Moon territory and wage battles for eventual control of the Moon.
Richard D. Fisher Jr. is a senior fellow and policy analyst with the International Assessment and Strategy Center.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~How to Secure Your Home on a Budget
Dear James: There have been some break-ins in my neighborhood, so I want to improve security at home. I’m on a tight budget. What are some simple do-it-yourself security tips? —Darrel K.
Dear Darrel: Almost every homeowner is on a tight budget these days, but there are still some things you can do to make your home more secure from break-ins. You might try contacting some security companies for a monitored alarm system. The monthly monitoring fees by some smaller local companies are reasonable, and they may install the system for free.
Even with an alarm system, making security improvements to windows and doors makes sense. Studies have shown that a burglar typically spends only 60 seconds trying to get inside a house. If it takes longer, he gives up and moves on. By making simple improvements to windows and doors, your goal is to make it just a little more time-consuming to get inside.
Unlocked doors and windows are the first place someone will try to break in, so it’s wise to check the locks whenever you leave your house or go to bed. The quality of the doors and frames themselves is important as well. Even if you have the best deadbolt lock on a cheap exterior door, a few stiff kicks may be enough to make a hole in the door itself.
Sliding glass patio doors are a common target for burglars. Once the lock is broken, the burglar can either slide them open or lift them off the track. To prevent the door from sliding open, place a broomstick in the track. You can also drill a hole through both the sliding and fixed panels and insert a pin in the hole, making it impossible to lift the panels out of their tracks.
For swinging entrance doors, install a rim lock or a surface-mounted deadbolt, as both are reasonable do-it-yourself projects. These can be either key- or spring-operated to activate the lock when the door is closed. A cylinder deadbolt is slightly more difficult to install, but it’s more secure than a rim lock.
Burglars sometimes try to partially break through a door and then pull out the hinge pins. To stop this, remove opposing screws from one of the hinges, and drive a double-headed nail into one of the holes to hold the hinge in place. The end of the nail that’s still sticking up should fit into the opposing hole where the screw was removed.
Once your doors are secure, tackle the windows. There’s only so much you can do with windows, because burglars can always break the glass. But they would rather not do that, because it makes noise when it breaks, and they generally don’t want to take the time to first tape the glass. Just do the first-floor windows if your security budget is tight.
Securing sliding windows employs similar methods to securing sliding glass patio doors. Double-hung windows generally have one or two locks between the sashes. Make sure the locks are totally closed, so shaking can’t make them rattle open. Drilling a hole through the upper and lower sash frames and inserting a pin can make them difficult to open from the outside. Always remove the crank handle from casement windows so they can’t be opened, even if the glass is broken.
Send your questions to Here’s How, 6906 Royalgreen Dr., Cincinnati, OH 45244, or visit Dulley.com. To find out more about James Dulley and read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.com~Time for a Post-Mortem on the Harms of Lockdowns
Commentary
It seems the “shut up and mask” wall is finally crumbling on COVID. The usual suspects still say you need to cover up and quarantine outdoors after getting vaccinated. But it’s becoming reputable to ask questions that, frankly, ought to have been asked long ago.
For instance, a long and worrying discussion in the May 20 National Post newspaper about the very direct health costs of the lockdown. Here I don’t mean of inactivity, extra eating, drinking, and above all isolation. I mean direct as in postponed surgeries. The Post quoted one Toronto “interventional cardiologist” (which if you find out what it is, you clearly have a problem requiring urgent attention) that he had “lost a lot of patients on the wait list.”
If the lockdowns were entirely necessary to prevent mass COVID fatalities, it might be legitimate to put those excess deaths in the COVID column. But if we overreacted, including cancelling other surgeries on the theory that only COVID mattered, they go into the “lockdown” column.
Which only exists if you admit there were tradeoffs, that by preventing a lot of things that would normally happen the lockdowns had real costs as well as benefits. For a long time that suggestion got you shouted down. But a rational person would try to weigh such costs to determine what policy makes sense… in real time. According to the Post, “soon-to-be-published data indicates that twice as many Ontarians with heart ailments died waiting for surgery during the pandemic than before COVID-19 hit.” So the fear that there would be triage among COVID patients, which didn’t happen, conceals that there was in cardiac care.
Obviously, heart surgery is a particularly non-elective kind of “elective” treatment. But the Post called it “just one facet of an often-overlooked side effect of the pandemic: the logjam across the country of hundreds of thousands of surgeries that grew as hospitals freed up space for COVID sufferers.” Which extend from quality-of-life matters like eye or hip surgery to question-of-life ones like cancer.
The Post comment that “Clearing the backlog is expected to cost billions, take years and keep operating rooms open evenings and weekends” has an “If I could walk like that” quality. If the authorities could fix surgical backlogs by spending billions and working more, they would have long before COVID. In fact, this form of rationing is a feature, not a bug, in Canadian health care. But one crisis at a time.
Why were these direct health costs so “often-overlooked,” with the data only being released “soon”? Here I come back to the whole “get-with-the-program” issue that has bedevilled us since last March. We’ve been told not to question lockdowns or masking, or discuss alternative treatments, who’s really at risk, or where the plague started. And by and large we did not.
Too many journalists became cheerleaders for governments. And too many legislatures rolled over, or up, as pundits pressured, activists bullied, experts said, and politicians snarled about following the science even while flopping the flip of their flabadap from borders to spacing vaccination doses to opening, closing, banning golf, and padlocking playgrounds.
In a society with the rule of law, it is not bad that people obeyed the law even while questioning its wisdom. But it is bad that questioning its wisdom was censured, even cancelled. We have acquired bad mental habits and they served us ill in the pandemic. And I think the consequences include further erosion of public trust including, in Ontario, widespread disregard of the latest lockdown.
Some people may be readying the brickbats over masks, let alone alternative treatments. But wearing what amounts to a T-shirt on your face does little to prevent you getting, or giving, a disease. Had people breathed through scarves to fight the Black Death we would mock their superstition. As for alternative measures, some doubtless were as idiotic as they sounded. But others, like vitamin D in particular, deserved clinical attention.
Now that only diehards are saying get vaccinated then stay home wearing six masks, I very much hope we will revisit a number of such questions. Not to scape goats; by and large revenge is a dish best served not. But to examine what we did right, and how we went wrong when we did. And we will find that the lockdowns did a lot of harm, from postponed surgery through inactivity to bankruptcy and isolation, and that the evidence was there long before we finally dared look at it.
When we do the post-mortem, figurative or literal, I think we will conclude that opting for panicky, state-coerced unanimity that forbade us to consider alternatives was exactly as bad a plan as it sounded this time, and always has been through history. If so, let’s remember it for the next crisis, medical or otherwise.
John Robson is a documentary filmmaker, National Post columnist, contributing editor to the Dorchester Review, and executive director of the Climate Discussion Nexus. His most recent documentary is “The Environment: A True Story.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.~Telling the Stories of World War II Veterans: ‘Time Is of the Essence!’
An interview with filmmaker Tracie Hunter
Tracie Hunter is an Emmy Award-winning documentary filmmaker who, for the past five years, has focused her film skills on telling the stories of World War II veterans. Through her organization WWII Beyond the Call, Hunter and her team of volunteer filmmakers have been seeking out, sitting down, and capturing the harrowing stories of soldiers from history’s greatest conflict. Her latest work “A Rendezvous With Destiny,” about the last three surviving members of the 101st Airborne Division “Screaming Eagles,” premiered on May 29 at the National Veterans Memorial and Museum in Columbus, Ohio.
Hunter took the time to answer a few questions about the new release and the importance of capturing these historical moments of heroism and sacrifice.
Dustin Bass: How and why did you become interested in creating documentaries about World War II veterans?
Tracie Hunter: A few reasons. I was born into a family with a long line of military service, with my father serving in the Army for most of my life. Growing up on bases and in this environment, I gained an understanding and appreciation of the sacrifices of our veterans. My grandfather served in the Army as well, during World War II in the European theater. He was a Purple Heart recipient and also a POW of Stalag 9B. I felt that by creating documentaries based on the experiences of our World War II veterans, it could help not only bring understanding to this critical piece of our human history, but also offer a safe platform for our veterans to share their story.
“Rendezvous With Destiny.” (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: What is “A Rendezvous With Destiny” about?
Ms. Hunter: “A Rendezvous With Destiny” is centered around the last remaining 101st Airborne Division “Screaming Eagles” featuring Toccoa original Jim “Pee Wee” Martin, Dan McBride, and Dick Klein. The film focuses on the history of the 101st Airborne Division and the three veterans shared experiences through D-Day, Operation Market Garden, and the Battle of the Bulge.
World War II veteran Jim “Pee Wee” Martin. (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: How did “A Rendezvous With Destiny” come about?
Ms. Hunter: Back in 2019, I was approached by Dutch author and veteran LTC. Jos Groen. He wrote a wonderful book called “Three of the Last WWII Screaming Eagles” that tells the biographies of each of these veterans. His hope was that our team at Beyond The Call could bring his book to the big screen. I remember making my first phone call to Mr. Dan McBride to set up an interview for this. After only a few minutes on the phone, I knew I could not pass on helping to share this part of history.
Mr. Bass: What has it been like interviewing and spending time with veterans of one of the most famous divisions in World War II history?
Ms. Hunter: My time with these men has been priceless. In documentary filmmaking you really dive in and get to know the film subjects and their families. Something we really try to focus on at Beyond The Call is our relationships with the veterans and making sure they feel cared about and heard long after the cameras turn off. I think for me one of the most fascinating parts of my time with these men was getting to know what they did with their 75-plus years after the war. Dan McBride built his own planes and was a train conductor. Dick Klein married the love of his life, June, and Mr. Jim “Pee Wee” Martin still continues to jump! They are just incredible individuals that have truly made the most of their lives.
World War II Dan McBride. (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: You actually parachuted during the shooting of this documentary, correct? What was that like?
Ms. Hunter: [Laughs] I did! Through this process, Dan McBride and I have become great friends. He told me I ought to try jumping sometime. I couldn’t really say no to an original 101st Veteran on this recommendation. So this past March, I joined up with Liberty Jump Team and did my five static line jumps required to earn my jump wings. Dan was waiting for me below to welcome me in from the drop zone. It was a pretty remarkable experience. One of the coolest parts of this was that my last two jumps were out of an original World War II C-47 plane.
Mr. Bass: Did the veterans parachute as well?
Ms. Hunter: During my week at jump school, no. However, for Jim “Pee Wee” Martin’s 99th birthday, I had the pleasure of watching him jump with the Round Canopy Parachuting Team down in Palatka, Florida.
Mr. Bass: How did it feel to parachute and earn your wings?
Ms. Hunter: What was happening didn’t really sink in until that door opened to the first plane I jumped out of. There is no tandem jump in this so you have to have a lot of faith in your instructors and also in yourself to get you down to the ground safely. Dan McBride was there for my training and jumps. He told me, with a big belly laugh, that he had “worked all the kinks out” back in 1942 when it was all experimental and that I would be just fine. He also told me if I made it through the jump school course he would personally pin my wings on me at the ceremony. That’s one of the best feelings in the world to know your personal hero believes in you. Jumping for me was one way I could gain a better understanding and get a very small taste of what these men went through.
Hunter earns her wings. (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: How do you feel the documentary turned out? And is there a sense of relief or sadness or both that the project is completed?
Ms. Hunter: This has been one of the most difficult yet rewarding projects to date. Working with World War II veterans you always feel the clock is ticking. Time is of the essence! At the time of the pandemic and COVID outbreak, we had only filmed with Dan. Everything came to a screeching halt, and all we could do was wait and hope for the veterans to still be with us when it was a safer time to visit and interview them. I feel incredibly grateful to say that all three are still here with us today and will be able to see their film. To know we were able to complete this story despite what the past year has looked like for the world, means everything. So in a way I am relieved, because we did it. We were able to share not one but three more World War II veterans’ stories. But there is always a moment of grieving as projects come to an end.
Mr. Bass: How did the National Veterans Memorial and Museum become involved in the film?
Ms. Hunter: Initially, the National Veterans Memorial and Museum was going to be the location where we were planning to hold a reunion for the three men. When everything shut down, the museum continued to be incredible partners to us and shared our other films on their platforms throughout the year. It really was the perfect partnership for the times. Since they had to close their doors to visitors, they were looking for ways to still continue their mission of sharing veterans’ stories, and we had veterans’ stories that needed sharing.
Mr. Bass: What do you hope people take away after watching the documentary?
Ms. Hunter: After watching the film, if people don’t remember the names, battles, or dates, my biggest hope is that they do remember how the documentary made them feel. When I watch it back, I feel immense gratitude. My ability to freely speak with you today can be attributed to the bravery and courage of men like Dan, Dick, and Jim. We still enjoy today the freedoms and liberties their sacrifices granted us. Another theme the veterans touch on in this film is their ability to move on in a spirit of reconciliation towards their former enemies. I hope our viewers will reflect on how they can help to maintain the legacies of this generation and ensure their sacrifices are not forgotten.
To learn more about Hunter’s documentaries, see her website at WWIIBeyondTheCall.com/projects
Dustin Bass is the co-host of The Sons of History podcast and the creator of the Thinking It Through YouTube channel. He is also an author.~The Citizens Hall at the heart of the Royal Palace of Amsterdam serves to orient people in the world, the galaxy, and the universe. (Koninklijk Paleis Amsterdam)
The Royal Palace of Amsterdam at the Center of the Universe
Larger Than Life: Art that inspires us through the ages
The Royal Palace was originally the Town Hall of Amsterdam, created in the 17th-century golden era of Holland. It was a time when Amsterdam and its fleet of ships held a dominant trading position, attracting great wealth to the nation’s capital.
When the population grew fivefold, a new town hall was needed to serve the people. Jacob van Campen was the appointed architect. He designed in the Dutch classical style, drawing on the proportions and spatial designs found in classical architecture.
Located in the center of Amsterdam facing Dam Square, the Palace is a harmoniously balanced sandstone building, with the façade’s focal point being a central bay topped by a domed tower. The Palace was built upon exactly 13,659 wooden poles, which were made from Norwegian spruce and driven into soft ground to carry the weight of the building.
Bearing Amid the Cosmos
At the apex of the west façade, Atlas, a Titan from Greek mythology, stands holding the universe. He reappears in the interior, overlooking Citizens Hall. Each of the four archways leading into the hall from the galleries is ornamented with one of the four elements: wind, water, earth, and fire—the ingredients of all matter in the universe.
On the marble floor are two large, centrally positioned maps inlaid with brass. One outlines the earth’s landmasses, and the other is a star chart of the Northern Hemisphere revealing the galaxy beyond.
The Hall creates an empowering moment for guests, acting as a compass and providing bearing amid the cosmos. Artworks throughout the Hall then tell the story of Amsterdam as the center of the universe, which today reminds visitors of the prominence the city once held on the world stage.
For two centuries, the Royal Palace of Amsterdam was the largest secular building in Europe and was called the “Eighth Wonder of the World.” (Ratundo/Shutterstock)
The Citizens Hall at the heart of the Royal Palace of Amsterdam serves to orient people in the world, the galaxy, and the universe. (Koninklijk Paleis Amsterdam)
This relief represents the desire for a just Amsterdam, where avarice and envy—characteristics of thieves and murderers—are not tolerated. The skeleton with its hourglass symbolizes Time and the revelation of Truth. In the end, Justice and Truth will always prevail. Superchilum/CC BY-SA 4.0)
Inlaid with brass on the marble floor, this centrally positioned map outlines the earth’s landmasses. When not in official use, the Royal Palace is open to the public. King Willem-Alexander (C) attends the opening of the exhibition “Universe of Amsterdam, Treasures From the Golden Age of Cartography” on June 28, 2019. (FRANK VAN BEEK/AFP via Getty Images)
The sculptures and reliefs appear in the Tribunal, the place where criminals met their fate, with judgment and punishment handed down. When offenders were sentenced to death, they were hanged on the second floor. (frankmlee/Shutterstock)
Tulips from North Holland fill Dam Square, in front of the Royal Palace’s Dutch classical façade. National Tulip Day is an event held in January each year. (Neirfy/Shutterstock)
An 18-foot-tall statue of Atlas stands on the rooftop and in the main hall, carrying the universe on his shoulders. Atlas symbolizes the universe and the important position Amsterdam held during the Golden Age. (Jane Rix/Shutterstock)
In the Vroedschapskamer (room of the council), amid the rich interior decoration, the painting over the mantel by Govert Flinck would have reminded the council of King Solomon, who here is asking God for wisdom in leading his people. (Benning & Gladkova/Koninklijk Paleis Amsterdam)
In 1806, Louis Bonaparte, Emperor Napoleon’s brother, became king of Holland and soon after took the Town Hall as his Royal Palace. The architect J.T. Thibault supervised its redecoration in the Empire style. (Kit Leong/Shutterstock)
King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima. When the Dutch regained control of Holland, King William I adopted the Palace, and from 1813 to the present, it has been used by the royal family. Today, it functions mainly for state visits, award ceremonies, New Year’s receptions, and other official events. The building also plays a role in royal marriages and in the abdications and inaugurations of monarchs. (RDV)
The Town Hall in Amsterdam, painted in 1668, by Dutch painter Jan van der Heyden, found in the Louvre, Paris. (Public Domain)
James Howard Smith, an architectural photographer, designer, and founder of Cartio, aims to inspire an appreciation of classic architecture.~More Moreish Food, Please
Years ago, we moved from our home in Switzerland to England. Among the mixed emotions, one standout was a relief to live again in an English-language culture.
While I can write at length about our bumbling and surprisingly foreign experience settling into UK life, I will stay on the topic of language. After all, it was one of the perks of this international move, and the excuse we used to propel ourselves to a remote corner of southeast England in our well-intentioned quest to blend in. After all, we were fluent in the local language—we only missed a sturdy pair of wellies.
So, after arrival in London and a brief rental experience, we moved to a small provincial hamlet on the edge of the south coast, where we purchased a rambling, feng shui-challenged barn renovation with distant views to the Isle of Wight. Suddenly, we found ourselves feeling quite foreign with a steep learning curve before us. Among many of our adjustments, we were about to experience a crash course in British English.
We quickly adjusted to referring to the car boot (not trunk) and clothing articles such as knickers, jumpers, and trainers. Perhaps more important, we awkwardly learned to never, ever, compliment someone on their pants (blush), for they are trousers. Our written word adjusted, as well, to include u’s and t’s (neighbour, favourite, learnt, burnt). The letter “z” became “zed” and was often substituted with an “s,” as in finalise and civilised.
The language differences also extended to food terminology. Take, for example, the notion of tea. If your child was invited home by a classmate for tea one day, rest assured your precious 4-year-old would not be served a scalding cup of Earl Grey. Most likely, he would be supplied with an early supper served to children; beans on toast is a favorite. Or, if you were invited to a neighbor’s home for dinner and asked to bring a pudding, not to worry as to whether you should recreate a butterscotch pudding recipe from your childhood or up the ante with a posh chocolate mousse. Pudding, you see, is a synonym for dessert in British English, so you would be free to go big and whip up a cake or trifle.
Which brings me to one of my favorite descriptive words pertaining to food in British English: moreish. When I first heard it, I pictured long banquet tables of Arab moors digging into a sumptuous feast. I quickly learned that the word is more-ish, and it applies to a dish or food you simply cannot stop eating. It’s so delicious, you want more.
And moreish is what I was thinking when I wrote this recipe. While Asia is far from England, these spiced Asian pork lettuce wraps are indeed moreish. They are crisp and juicy, laced with ginger and spice. Better yet, you must eat them with your hands, which is a fun, interactive, and dribbly affair, and seems to make them taste even better. So, tuck in and enjoy these little bites. One will certainly not be enough.
Asian Pork Meatball Lettuce Wraps
Active Time: 1 hour
Total Time: 1 hour, plus chilling time
Makes 18 meatballs
For the Meatballs
1 1/2 pounds ground pork (turkey may be substituted)
3 large garlic cloves, minced
3 tablespoons panko breadcrumbs
1 scallion, finely chopped, green ends reserved for the rice
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon finely grated peeled fresh ginger
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
For the Rice
1 cup basmati or jasmine rice
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 small red jalapeño chile pepper, seeded and minced
1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil
For the Sauce
1/4 cup unseasoned rice vinegar
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons sweet chile sauce
2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 tablespoon finely chopped fresh mint leaves
2 teaspoons finely grated peeled fresh ginger
To Assemble
Vegetable oil for pan-frying
Little gem or butter lettuce leaves for wrapping
Asian hot sauce, such as Sriracha
Combine all the meatball ingredients in a bowl and gently mix to blend. Using a light hand, form the mixture into 1 1/2-inch meatballs. Place on a plate and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours.
Prepare the rice: Add the rice, 1 1/2 cups water, and the salt to a medium saucepan. Bring to a simmer over medium heat. Cover the pot and reduce the heat to low. Cook until the water is absorbed and the rice is tender, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and remove the lid. Lay a kitchen towel over the saucepan and replace the lid. Let the rice steam for 5 minutes. Fluff with a fork and gently stir in the reserved green scallion ends, the chile pepper, and sesame oil.
Mix all the sauce ingredients together in a small bowl.
Cook the meatballs: Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Add the meatballs to the skillet without overcrowding, and gently press to slightly flatten. Cook until well browned on all sides and thoroughly cooked through, 8 to 10 minutes, turning as needed. Transfer to a plate lined with a paper towel and repeat with the remaining meatballs.
To serve, spoon a little rice into a lettuce leaf. Top with a meatball and drizzle with the sauce. Serve with additional hot sauce if desired.
Lynda Balslev is a cookbook author, food and travel writer, and recipe developer based in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she lives with her Danish husband, two children, a cat, and a dog. Lynda studied cooking at Le Cordon Bleu Ecole de Cuisine in Paris and worked as a personal chef, culinary instructor, and food writer in Switzerland and Denmark. Copyright 2021 Lynda Balslev. Distributed by Andrew McMeel Syndication.~Fresno Teen Repairs Flag Memorial for His Eagle Scout Project, Honors Gold Star Moms, Veterans
A teen from Fresno, aiming to become an Eagle Scout, tackled a public project to give back to his community—and show respect to military families who have sacrificed for their country.
Before Christian Juvet, 17, could reach his goal of becoming an Eagle Scout, he had to show he was worthy of the title.
“Throughout Scouts, you’re taught a lot of different lessons and, and just traits of how to be a good citizen, and how to give back in your community,” he told The Epoch Times. “And it all really just led up to this Eagle project.”
Christian learned of a concrete flag memorial in Roeding Park that was in disrepair and badly in need of refurbishing.
The flag memorial in Roeding Park, Fresno, prior to refurbishing. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
Detail of the memorial prior to refurbishing. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
“I’ve seen how bad it was, and how faded and unmaintained it was,” Juvet said. “And after doing more research, I found the historical significance and the purpose that it was made for honoring veterans and Gold Star Mothers.”
In addition to earning his Eagle Scout title with the reno, the teen from Fresno Troup 95 also hoped “to complete the project as a sign of respect for veterans and Americans,” he said.
(L-R) Christian Juvet, his father, and his brother. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
Completed in the 1950s, the memorial was originally a planted bed of red, white, and blue flowers; but in 2007 it was redone in concrete for ease of maintenance.
Since then, it became dilapidated as paint faded and graffiti and other wear accrued.
To Christian—a proud patriot—the American flag has special significance. “To be a patriot to me means uniting with everyone under the flag to achieve greater opportunities and just to share support with everyone,” he said.
So, calling the City of Fresno, he quickly garnered support for the project from Mark Standriff, of Beautify Fresno, who was thrilled to give the go ahead. The City had the concrete memorial pressure-washed and all set for Christian and his friends to go to town.
Christian and his team working on the flag memorial on May 16. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
On May 16, the team got to work, cutting edges and rolling on fresh red, white, and blue paint over the relief concrete design in the park.
Meanwhile, local motorists were audible in showing their support while the teens worked. “A lot of them they honk and just show their appreciation because a lot of people pass by that flag,” Christian said.
“And I think that I really put an impact on the community, showing that we can—someone from the community, anyone, can—give vibrance and meaning to something that was once lost.”
After 10 hours, the team had finished their work.
The flag memorial, honoring Gold Star Mothers and veterans, after the work was completed. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
For Christian, also a budding artist, the project allowed him to use his artistic skills. He plans to attend college in the fall and pursue a degree in graphic design.
As far as becoming an Eagle Scout, Christian called the project “the biggest way to show how you’ve matured as an Eagle Scout, to show that you can lead other people, and that you care about the community.”
Christian is now all set to become an Eagle Scout on June 3.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~This shiomomi cabbage and kombu salad is ready to enjoy in less than an hour. (Melissa Uchiyama)
Japanese Pickled Cabbage and Kombu Salad
Shiomomi, the salt-massaged method, is the perfect place to start making Japanese-style pickles, or tsukemono. This recipe is adapted with permission from Elizabeth Andoh’s “Impatient Pickles.”
Serves 2 to 3 as a side
1 small, dense portion of cabbage (about 6 to 8 ounces), washed, dried, and sliced thinly, as if you are preparing a slaw
1 small cucumber (about 2 ounces), washed and sliced (unpeeled) into paper-thin rounds
1 1/2 teaspoon coarse or flaky sea salt
1-inch piece kombu (optional, see Note)
1 tablespoon fresh herbs, such as dill or mint, or organic citrus zest
Gather all thinly-sliced, fairly uniformly-sized veggies in a bowl and mix in the salt a bit to begin the sweating process. Transfer all ingredients to a sealable plastic bag. If using kombu, situate each small piece in a different part of the bag to evenly distribute taste and texture.
You can place your vegetable mix in a Japanese pickle press, or simply use a sealable plastic bag and a stack of heavy books. (Melissa Uchiyama)
Seal the bag and use your hands to massage the contents. Squeeze all air out of the bag, reseal, and place under weighted books or inside a pickle press. Store, weighted like this, for a minimum of 30 minutes or up to 12 hours at room temperature, or up to 24 hours if refrigerated. (Any longer, and your vegetables will become too saturated with salt and will break down further, turning limp.)
Rinse in cold water, drain, and gently squeeze out any remaining water. Enjoy these pickles impatiently—that is, immediately—or keep fresh in the refrigerator for up to an additional day. Remove the kombu just before eating, as it will be too tough for most.
You may present individual servings of your tsukemono in tiny dishes, squeezed together to form small, dense mountains, to accompany a meal, or pile it into one heap in a bowl for the table, the way you might with a family-style salad.
Note: Kombu kelp can be found in most Asian markets, specialty grocery stores, or health food stores, or ordered online. Though listed in the recipe as optional, the small, umami-packed strips can make a sea of difference, changing the texture and yielding a more delicious, more nuanced outcome.~78-Year-Old Retiree Fosters Over 80 Infants in 3 Decades: ‘God’s Handed Me a Gift to Do’
At 78, a veteran foster carer who has looked after 8o-plus infants in the span of over three decades, as a single foster parent, reflects on her role, calling it “challenging… but very rewarding.”
Linda Owens retired from her career as a grocery department manager, but still continues to care for babies, sometimes two at a time, from her home in Hayward, California.
“This is what God’s handed me a gift to do,” she explained to KPIX.
Many of the babies that Owens cares for as a foster or “resource parent” have been exposed to drugs while in the womb. As a result, some of them suffer from sleep disturbances and developmental setbacks after they are born. Owens has also fostered three sets of twins. Armed with 34 years of experience, she is unfazed by the challenges.
“She’s in a category almost all by herself,” said Mia Buckner-Preston, placement division director at Alameda County Department of Children & Family Services. “Her experience, the care, the love she provides to the babies, it’s immeasurable.”
The elderly woman is one of the longest serving among Alameda County’s 500 resource parents. She is paid for her work but has nonetheless bought some of the supplies—including bottles, formula, and baby clothes—with her own money.
Owens’s 81st foster child, a 7-week-old baby girl, has been in her care since she left the hospital as a newborn. While the impending goodbye is heartbreaking, Owens knows that adoption or reunification makes space in her home for another child in need.
“I can give her a kiss on the forehead and wish her the best, and say, ‘I love you,'” she reflected.
At any one time, the county’s Department of Children & Family Services is responsible for around 1,200 minors who are unable to live with their birth parents or legal guardians due to child abuse and/or neglect, according to the department’s website.
Resource parents, such as Owens, provide safe, stable homes that kids in crisis so desperately need.
Pediatrician Mika Hiramatsu, who has worked with Owens for years, described her to KPIX as “always very optimistic.” Her determination to give her young charges the best start is a gift to their future adoptive parents, and their lives are made easier by Owens’s expertise.
A woman named Erica, adoptive mom to a now-12-year-old girl that Owens fostered as a baby, recalled receiving some invaluable parenting advice from Owens, who told her, “I know you want to play with her, but if you wake her up, you’ll start interrupting her sleep.”
Erica and her daughter remain close to Owens, paying her regular visits and sharing the girl’s milestones. Owens claims her former foster daughter has “turned out beautiful.” She also said it made her feel good to know she had fulfilled her task.
Owens remembers all her former foster children, the oldest of whom is now 37.
At the end of April, Owens received the Bay Area Jefferson Award for her contribution to the community.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~2021 VW Atlas V6 SEL Premium R-Line
Seven-seater SUV refreshed for 2021
The base S model of the Volkswagen Atlas is equipped with a 2.0L engine, while SE and higher models are powered by a 3.6-liter DOHC narrow angle V6 engine. This V6 is coupled to an 8-speed automatic transmission with Tiptronic, then the power is distributed through 4Motion AWD with Active Control driving mode selection.
The V6 motivates the Atlas forward with up to 235 horsepower and 258 lb-ft of torque. Fuel economy is rated at 16 mpg city and 22 mpg highway for a combined average of 18 mpg. However, my week of driving netted a solid 22 mpg.
Looking from the back. (Courtesy of VW)
Engine start button gets you ready to roll quickly, while four-wheel independent suspension helps to smooth out the bumps on the way.
This large SUV is manufactured to go toe-to-toe with the likes of Toyota Highlander, Nissan Armada, Cadillac Escalade, and Kia Telluride. Atlas lands somewhere in the middle.
The interior of the Atlas. (Courtesy of VW)
The SUV’s large size is well represented by the 154 cubic feet of total passenger volume, plus a cargo capacity of 20.6 cubic feet with all seats up.
The three-row seating layout offers space for up to seven adults. The 60/40-split second-row bench tilts and slides forward, even with child’s seat in place. The two-passenger third-row bench is 50/50 split. Both second- and third-row seats can fold flat.
Cargo space behind the 50/50-split third-row. (Courtesy of VW)
Climatronic tri-zone automatic control features second-row rear zone controls and adjustable air vents to ensure all all three rows are cared for. The front seats are heated and ventilated, and the driver’s side also has 10-power power lumbar support with position memory.
The SEL Premium R-Line model has a heated, leather wrapped, 3-spoke R-Line steering wheel.
I felt the best interior feature was the Fender Premium Audio System, which envelopes the occupants with 12 speakers. It expresses the emotion of the musical performance for all to enjoy.
Fender Premium Audio System. (Courtesy of VW)
The all-new MIB3 infotainment system brings USB-C ports, SiriusXM, Travel Assist, and Emergency Assist. Also featured are wireless App-Connect with multi-phone pairings that can switch between compatible devices, and enhanced voice recognition. Illuminated USB-C ports are standard and they can be found in the center stack.
This system centers around an 8-inch touchscreen. However, I would have preferred a much larger screen. Media playback on the MIB3 system is handled by either the Composition Media module in the SE tier, or Discover Media system with navigation module on higher models. A rearview camera is standard across the model line.
Center touchscreen for the infotainment system. (Courtesy of VW)
The SEL model tier also receives the IQ-DRIVE assistance tech package treatment, which uses front and rear radars, a front camera, and several ultrasound sensors to detect potential harm. This system is implemented as Forward Collision Warning and Autonomous Emergency Braking with Pedestrian Monitoring, Blind Spot Monitor, Rear Traffic Alert, Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), Lane Keeping System, Travel Assist, and Emergency Assist.
Atlas rests on 21-inch alloy wheels wearing all season tires. Full LED suite of automatic headlights, daytime running lights, and tail lights illuminate your way while announcing your presence.
The panoramic sunroof has a power tilting and sliding front section and a fixed rear section. It opens up to the outside to let in sunlight, wind, fragrances, and sounds to mix with the pleasant, quiet cabin.
Digital instrument cluster. (Courtesy of VW)
The R-Line bumpers, badging, and interior trim, plus silver roof rails accompany a trailer hitch that can pull up to 5,000 pounds.
Intelligent Crash Response System and Automatic Post Collision Braking System increase survivability should there ever be a crash.
Historically, one may think of Volkswagen as a brand for small economical vehicles that suits two folks just fine. However, for some time now we know that VW has morphed into a brand that helps fulfilling the needs of a diverse, intelligent, rapidly growing, and complex global society.
If you like roominess, top notch comfort, and safety technology, yet without sacrificing power of prestige, then you may want to take more than a fleeting glance at the VW Atlas.
Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price for the range-topping SEL Premium R-Line is $50,725.
Warranty Information
4 years/50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty
7 years/100,000 miles Corrosive Perforation Warranty
2 years/36,000 miles Roadside Assistance
Durhl Caussey writes a car column read around the world. He may be reached at this paper or durhlcaussey@gmail.com.~Hand-Reared Baby Gorilla Gets Surrogate Mom After Birth Mother Struggles to Care For Him
An infant gorilla, hand-reared by keepers after his mother struggled to care for him, has been adopted by a surrogate mom.
Western lowland gorilla Hasani was born at Bristol Zoo Gardens in western England in August 2020. Yet keepers quickly realized that his birth mother, Kala, couldn’t manage him.
They designed a hand-rearing program, with six staffers on rotation to ensure that Hasani was fed up to eight times a day for a period of seven months.
“We really wanted to get them back together and give Kala another chance to look after him,” Lynsey Bugg, Curator of Mammals, explained in a Bristol Zoo news release.
Hasani, pictured on Nov. 19, 2020. (Courtesy of Jordan Jones/Bristol Zoo Gardens)
In March 2021, keepers felt that Hasani was ready for reintroduction, and Kala was interested, but sadly, she continued to struggle with caregiving. After weeks of trying, Hasani’s keepers had to accept that it wasn’t working out. However, they had another idea.
A resident female gorilla, Kera, 16, had had her own daughter, Afia, adopted by a surrogate, named Romina, when she fell ill with potentially fatal preeclampsia after delivering her baby via Caesarean section five years ago.
Yet despite her lack of rearing experience, keepers believed Kera would be up for the challenge.
Describing her as “very intelligent,” Bugg explained, “She has seen several other females rear their youngsters and so had a good foundation on which to build on.”
During Hasani’s hand-rearing, Kera showed an active interest in the infant. Introductions began with the pair touching through an open partition, with keepers on standby. Things went well; they were able to progress to unrestricted access within days.
Finally leaving the two gorillas alone, keepers watched on TV monitors from elsewhere in the gorilla house. “It is a question of using experience and judgment to decide how long to leave them,” said Bugg, who also works as an advisor on surrogacy for the gorillas’ EAZA Ex-situ Programme (EEP).
Hasani with his surrogate mom, Kera. (Courtesy of Jordan Jones/Bristol Zoo Gardens)
With Hasani safe in Kera’s hands, the pair were given their own enclosure. On May 20, the zoo confirmed on Facebook that Hasani is now spending every day and night with his surrogate mom, and is making great progress.
For the next three to four years, Kera will show her young charge how to live, thrive, and be independent.
“This is a fantastic success,” said Bugg. The baby gorilla, who may not have made it without his surrogate, is “back with his fellow gorillas inside of a year.”
The next step is for Hasani to meet the zoo’s other resident western lowland gorillas. He has already been close enough to hear their calls, and has met his father, Jock, and has been reintroduced to his birth mother, Kala, successfully.
Bristol Zoo Gardens is home to eight western lowland gorillas as part of an international breeding program to help preserve this critically endangered species. Conservationists from Bristol Zoological Society, the charity that oversees the zoo, are also involved in a gorilla conservation project in Monte Alén National Park, Equatorial Guinea.
According to Bugg, 9-month-old Hasani is a success story.
He’s “starting to copy Kera in natural gorilla behaviors such as nest building and stripping bark and leaves from branches,” she explained. “He will grow up to be a fully-functioning gorilla, thanks to the efforts of his dedicated keepers.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Skywatchers Witness Breathtaking Rainbow Halo Around the Sun Over City in Southern India
A stunning spectacle was witnessed in the sky over Bangalore on Monday when a rainbow formed a halo around the sun.
Local residents observed and photographed the striking atmospheric phenomenon surrounding the sun in the southern Indian city.
Dr. Gouri Sateesh, 24, who was one of the hundreds of residents who captured the spectacular sight on her camera, said she was awestruck after witnessing the natural marvel.
A rainbow is an optical phenomenon which occurs when light passes through tiny pixel-like droplets of water in the atmosphere and is refracted so that all the colors of the visible light spectrum are made visible.
Likewise, the phenomenon may occur when sunlight passes through clouds (water vapor), causing this similar halo rainbow effect when looking in the direction of the sun.
“My uncle first spotted the halo but I joked and said it was just his phone’s camera lens not working properly,” Sateesh said.
“But he insisted and urged me to see it myself.
“I took my brother downstairs, camera at the ready. And lo behold, the sun was right above us, with a perfect rainbow surrounding it.
“My brother and I were awestruck.
“We’d never seen or heard of anything like it. My uncle wasn’t joking. I quickly dropped the exposure on my camera and clicked some pictures, fearing it would disappear before I could capture it.
“But it stuck around for an hour or so, before the clouds engulfed it.”
Photos of the dramatic atmospheric phenomenon were posted on social media where it went viral.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Pickled Things: An Introduction to Japanese Tsukemono
The world of traditional Japanese tsukemono is vast and delicious—and easy to start exploring from your home kitchen
Think of pickles—what do you think of? Invariably, a sour crunch? Vats of bright green dill, maybe? The Japanese notion of a pickle often comes as a surprise.
What the Japanese call tsukemono, or “pickled things,” may be tart and crunchy, yes, or they may be soft, deeply sweet, and imbued with umami. They may be quickly brined, for a subtle change in flavor and texture, or long-fermented, until entirely transformed. Tsukemono don’t necessarily rely on vinegar, as many other pickles do, but ingredients such as miso, salt, rice bran, or sake lees. They’re not limited to vegetables, either: Chrysanthemum petals, whole plums, and even meat and fish may become tsukemono; the arena is vast.
Whatever the style of tsukemono, it is an essential, ever-present component of a Japanese meal, whether nibbled with a savory breakfast, lunch, or dinner. These pickles can act as a small salad, not needing any dressing; a refreshing, palate-cleansing bite between mouthfuls of rice; and an aid for digestion. With their vivid, varied hues, from electric-yellow to purplish-black, tsukemono also help bring a balance of the five elemental colors—red, yellow, green, black, and white—to every meal, as desired in traditional Japanese cuisine and philosophy.
Tsukemono is an essential, ever-present component of a Japanese meal, whether nibbled with a savory breakfast, lunch, or dinner. (gontabunta/shutterstock)
Japanese food is driven by the seasons, a philosophy called “shun,” and tsukemono are no exception. There are specific seasons for making and eating the hundreds of varieties of tsukemono, each meant to capture that particular ingredient at its prime.
“It is not about being able to serve foods out of season,” said Elizabeth Andoh, who has written extensively about Japan’s food culture. “The Japanese think of tsukemono as being able to capture the moment—with a subtle hand, or more of a punch.”
Local Specialties
Some tsukemono are popular throughout Japan. Umeboshi, for example, are quintessential tsukemono—the whole of Japan may make these sour, salty preserved plums. (Still, how they do so will vary from town to town, village to village, and house to house—some intensely tart, some mild and honeyed, others laced with ribbons of red shiso leaf.) The classic yellow Takuan, a daikon pickle created by and named after a notable Zen Buddhist monk, is another mainstay across the country.
Takuan, pickled daikon radish. (gontabunta/shutterstock)
Other tsukemono are tied to specific regions and prefectures. These iconic varieties are as instantly recognizable as a soccer team’s jersey and are popular souvenirs or gifts to bring back from travels.
From Nara in the west, you’ve got narazuke, traditionally white melon matured in sweet sake lees (kasuzuke) for months or even years, taking on a dark brown hue and a deep, sweet funk. In Kyoto, the signature pickle is senmaizuke, or “thousand-slice pickles,” comprised of ultra-thin, mandolin-cut wheels of turnip tasting of sweet vinegar, kombu, and togarashi pepper.
Narazuke, white melon pickled in sweet sake lees, a specialty of Nara. (Picture Partners/shutterstock)
Senmaizuke, or “thousand-slice pickles” made with thin-cut turnip, Kyoto’s signature pickle. (yoshi0511/shutterstock)
Kyoto is also famous for shibazuke, an eggplant pickle colored magenta by red shiso leaves and myoga, Japanese ginger buds.
Shibazuke, an eggplant pickle colored magenta by red shiso leaves and myoga. (sasazawa/shutterstock)
In Akita prefecture in the north, where white winters are long and the growing season is short, communities adapt their tsukemono to fit the environment. Since heavy snow and short days limit opportunities to sun-dry daikon, the vegetable is smoked instead, then pickled to last through the remainder of the harsh winter. The result is the region’s famous iburigakko, smokier than a campfire.
Iburigakko, Akita prefecture’s famed smoked daikon pickle. (KOHUKU/shutterstock)
Finding Tsukemono
In Japan, you can find tsukemono everywhere, from high-end shops to convenience stores. Modern shipping and distribution have also made it possible for people to sample regional specialties without having to travel.
Brick-and-mortar shops and online markets offer pickle enthusiasts the experience of tasting regional styles and supporting generations of farmers and craft artisans. Kintame, for instance, has been making Kyoto-style tsukemono since 1879, and today sells its wares both to-go and as part of a sit-down meal at locations in Kyoto and Tokyo.
Depachika, the famous food halls located in the basements of Japanese department stores, are strategic places to experience the plethora of regional tsukemono tastes. A white-gloved attendant may present you with a range of different specialties to sample before you buy.
Pickling at Home
Traditionally, Japanese households all made their own tsukemono, relying on pickle rooms and cool space under floorboards in the days before refrigeration. Most modern homes still have these underground nooks, in addition to refrigerators, where at least a few jars of pickles, miso, and other essentials can flourish.
A staple in the traditional Japanese home is a nuka pickle pot, used to make nukazuke. This type of pickle relies on nuka—rice bran—fermented with a mix of dried, umami-rich items, such as shiitake mushrooms, hot pepper, yuzu peel, or sardines (niboshi). This nukadoko—or pickling bed—is stored in a special, often ceramic, pot.
Homemade nukazuke, rice bran pickles. A nuka pickle pot is a staple in traditional Japanese homes. (bonchan/shutterstock)
Preparing a nukadoko can take months, as the ingredients ferment and become the perfect environment for making nukazuke. This longer-term method of pickling demands that the caregiver tend to the nukadoko daily, using bare, clean hands to turn it over, adding oxygen and health-promoting microorganisms. With careful upkeep, these living treasure troves can be kept alive over generations. Andoh tends a five-generation nuka pickle pot, and teaches others how to start their own.
The nukadoko must be turned over daily, adding oxygen and health-promoting microorganisms. With careful upkeep, these living treasure troves can be kept alive over generations. (bonchan/shutterstock)
But even without a Japanese home or ingredients, or starter cultures like nukadoko, there are simpler techniques that can flexibly bend their way into any kitchen in the world. Shiomomi, the salt-massaged method, is a perfect place to start.
“Shiomomi couldn’t be more basic or easier to make,” said Andoh. “All you need is salt and a little bit of muscle—determination.”
“Shio” means “salt,” while “momi” refers to the squeezing and massaging action that helps the salt draw out moisture from the vegetables, contributing to their own brine, and break down the cellular walls, immediately tenderizing even the toughest of cabbage. Part of the transformation comes from adding a bit of umami-rich kombu, which deepens the complexity of taste and texture.
The final step is to add pressure. You can place your vegetable mix in a Japanese pickle press, a gadget specialized for this purpose, or simply a sealed plastic bag under a stack of heavy books. This keeps oxygen out, and helps the brine transform the ingredients.
Andoh shared her recipe for a shiomomi cabbage and kombu salad, which she calls “impatient pickles,” adapted below. True to their name, the vibrant, crunchy pickles will be ready to enjoy in less than an hour.
Get to know the basic technique, and a world of tsukemono will begin to open up. Taste, test, and create your own variations, using what you have, and whatever seasonal produce is at peak flavor—radishes, fennel, cucumbers, eggplants. Try adding citrus zest, herbs, or hot peppers—the tastes of your own terroir. Soon, you’ll be making Japanese pickles for every meal.
RECIPE: Japanese Pickled Cabbage and Kombu Salad
Melissa Uchiyama is a food writer, essayist, and teacher who leads creative writing camps in Tokyo. You can find Melissa at EatenJapan.com and on Instagram @melissauchiyamawrites.~Sipping Vino and Savoring Vistas in Tuscany
Wandering the hilly, narrow cobblestone streets in our home base of Montalcino, Italy, a medieval city of interlocking passageways, steps, and alleyways curving around and through and behind and beyond the main square, I reminded myself I was walking through history that spanned 800 years.
When my husband and I stopped for lunch and I ordered a glass of the house wine, a bottle arrived at the table. When I protested, I was told to drink what I wanted and I would be charged accordingly. Not a bad system, I thought.
Later, sipping more wine—this was Italy, after all—on our apartment balcony overlooking the vineyards from whose grapes it was made, we debated whether to eat in or go out for another Florentine steak. The fact that our apartment was housed in a structure dating back to the 13th century on a farm boasting one of the best-known vineyards in Italy was a bonus.
Welcome to Untour, a wonderful well-kept secret that may change your concept of travel forever. The Untour program offers travelers a unique opportunity to not be tourists. It flies participants to one or more cities in almost a dozen European countries, inundates them with information, and puts them up in apartments for two to four weeks to live like the locals. It was a much safer option during the pandemic than staying at a hotel.
We were learning about our neighborhood but on our terms. Rise early or sleep in? Sightsee or stroll around town? Cook in or eat out? Whatever the choice, we returned to our apartment, which was much roomier and had a warmer ambiance than any hotel would provide. Also, here we could be sure that strict COVID protocols had been adhered to.
Vineyards run for as far as the eye can see in some parts of Tuscany. (Courtesy of Victor Block)
The town of steps, turns, and back alleys that initially seemed daunting to navigate soon became negotiable. We mastered shortcuts to the center of town, got to know local vendors, and began to feel secure enough to risk getting lost on purpose. The sense of pride I felt when giving some harried American tourists directions bordered on smug.
Each day brought a new adventure, often beginning with a visit to any one of several nearby “hill towns,” which indeed come by their name honestly. One day, it was the Renaissance city of Pienza, known for its harmony of landscape and structure, a town for which the word “charming” was invented. Another day, we visited San Gimignano, claiming more intact towers than any other hill town—13, 14, or 15, depending upon the not-so-reliable source material. Or tiny Murlo, a town of 17 that resembled a movie set of a 13th-century village.
A visit to Abbadia San Salvatore introduced us to an eighth-century abbey that claimed to be newly renovated, but those “recent” restorations took place in the 15th century. This sense of time warp is ever present. The present and past coexist harmoniously as one can travel back and forth through multiple centuries while just doing day-to-day errands.
Every town has its church that dates from the 1200s, a museum celebrating its art, its de rigueur duomo, fortress, and possibly Etruscan tomb. But for me, the wonder of traveling is to be found wandering the streets, and in Tuscany especially, stopping at every cafe for a cappuccino or scoop of gelato.
It’s always the right time for a gelato break in Tuscany. (Courtesy of Victor Block)
Though my husband’s eyes were beginning to glaze over at the thought of another medieval town, I was still entranced by the narrow streets, steep hills, and back alleys. We broke up our days with hiking in nearby national parks, meandering through local outdoor markets, checking out a cock festival that had been held in a close-by hamlet for more than 700 years, and doing errands such as laundry, email, and shopping for quiet dinners at home.
One of our favorite hangouts was Taverna dei Barbi, an old stone tavern on the grounds of the vineyard where we lived. Sitting among the eerie granite-covered archways and columns, I felt like I was in a very sophisticated, warm, welcoming—dungeon.
The taverna’s sausages and salami come from their resident pigs, the cheeses from their sheep, the veggies from the garden, and, of course, the wine from their vineyards. Most restaurants at home are not quite that self-sustaining. I was glad I hadn’t taken a tour earlier and gotten to know any of the local inhabitants by name.
Our days were filled with a meshing of hills and happenstance, vistas and vino, walled cities, and watchtowers—a chance meeting at a museum, church, fortress, or, better yet, a wine-tasting.
Perhaps that’s the essence of the Untour experience. There’s something more special about discovering such treasures on your own rather than being herded there as part of a group according to a predetermined schedule that dictates how long you can spend looking before it hurries you through because the bus is leaving to go to the next stop. It was so much nicer just to pick up some roasted chicken, wave to shopkeepers we had befriended, and return home to sit on our porch, sip yet another glass of wine, and savor our most recent exploits.
When You Go
For more information: Untours.com
Fyllis Hockman is a freelance writer. To read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.com~6 Tips to Save Money in the Yard and Garden
Budget landscaping and yard care doesn’t mean cutting corners; it means making the most of your tools and existing plants. Follow these six easy-to-implement tips to save money on your great outdoors.
Remember: Seeds are Cheaper Than Plants
Many vegetables are easy to grow from seed, and a $2 seed packet is a lot cheaper than a full-sized plant—or buying vegetables from the store. Try tomatoes, peppers, squash, cucumbers, beans, lettuce, and beets from seed. They’re easy, even for beginning gardeners. Start them indoors under lights for a head start or sow directly in the garden. If you’re nervous about starting from seed, seedlings purchased from a nursery are typically only slightly more expensive.
Invest in a Mulching Mower
A good mulching mower pays for itself in several ways. First, you don’t have to pay to have grass clippings bagged and hauled to a composting facility. Second, returning clippings to your lawn is like free fertilizer. Over the course of a full season, you’ll return about as much nitrogen as one full-strength feeding. And when fall comes, do the same with fallen leaves.
Save Money on Soil
A large container can be expensive to fill with fresh potting soil. To save money, place one or more empty nursery pots upside down in the bottom. Not only does it reduce the amount of soil needed, it reduces weight, too.
Inspect Your Sprinklers
Long watering is an expensive proposition in the summertime. To make sure your sprinklers are operating efficiently, have an irrigation expert do a walk-through water audit and suggest ways to reduce water bills. If you have an automatic irrigation system, use sensors to make it more efficient. They can help you water exactly as much as needed, and no more.
Trade Perennials With Other Gardeners
Mature perennials in your garden are a valuable resource. Most perennials can be dug up and divided, yielding two, three, even four splits. And each of these can be replanted elsewhere. Even better, trade with other gardeners, swapping divisions of your perennial for varieties in their gardens that you’d like to try.
Plant a Tree for a More Efficient House
If you have a hot western wall exposed to the afternoon sun, try planting a tree that will shade it. Not only can it add to the overall aesthetic of your surrounding yard, the shade it throws can significantly reduce your cooling costs.
Better Homes and Gardens is a magazine and website devoted to ideas and improvement projects for your home and garden, plus recipes and entertaining ideas. Online at BHG.com. Copyright 2021 Meredith Corporation. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~Dante Alighieri: All About Love
When the Beatles crooned “Love is all you need” in 1967, they coined an anthem for the flower power age, but when Dante Alighieri composed “The Love that moves the sun and the other stars,” he created the theme song of the Renaissance and beyond.
Worldwide celebrations are underway for the 700th anniversary of Dante Alighieri’s death, the Italian philosopher poet whose early amorous ditties would give way to an epic poem capable of uniting a scattered nation, inspiring generations of artists, and reflecting a universal human story.
Dante Alighieri was born in Florence Italy in 1265, and as a scion of a distinguished house, he followed the usual track of medieval young influencers: military duty in a few skirmish battles with neighboring towns, a stint at the University of Bologna (then merely a century old), and participation in public political life. But neither war nor statesmanship drew Dante; his path lay in the art of poetry.
Influenced by courtly troubadours of France and Sicily, he moved swiftly away from writing in Latin—still the official language of the Italian peninsula—to the Italian vernacular, the dialect of the people. Dante was soon attracted to a set of young poets pioneering a “sweet new style” popular verse that employed accessible language, catchy meter, and sang of love, love, love.
He enjoyed fame and fortune until the vicissitudes of medieval politics ousted him from Florence. Dante spent the final 20 years of his life in exile, dependent on benevolent benefactors, and experiencing “the bitter taste of others’ bread,” until he settled in Ravenna under the protection of Guido da Polenta, where he died in 1321.
It was during this turbulent period of his life that the poet errant composed the “Divine Comedy,” a poem of one hundred stanzas, called cantos, divided into three books, Inferno, Purgatory and Paradise. He developed a rhyme system called “terza rima,” an interlocking musical rhythm that propelled readers through an imaginary journey through the horrors of Hell, the sufferings of Purgatory and the joys of Heaven. Written in the vernacular, the work crafted timeless images out of words, raising Italian to a language of literature, while forging a common tongue for the fractious populace of the numerous city states freckling the peninsula. Dante demonstrated how the beauty of words could draw people together, instead of causing pain and estrangements.
The “Divine Comedy,” although a masterpiece of the Middle Ages, was inspired by the ancient Mediterranean literary traditions of Homer and Virgil, the latter—who famously wrote that “love conquers all”—acting as guide for the first part of Dante’s journey. Yet, while the “Aeneid” recounted the story of the Roman people, and the “Iliad” that of the Greek states, Dante’s poem transformed the human condition itself into an epic tale, proposing an existential heroism that could be transmuted from age to age. Certainly, the window dressing of the “Divine Comedy” features a fair amount of medieval insider gossip, but his spiritual journey would resonate with people far beyond his own borders.
Dante, a believer, moved in an age of faith: his heroes are saints and his framework Christian, yet his story captures the collective imagination. Caught in the snares of his own ambitions and desires, Dante describes himself as alone “in a dark wood, having lost the right way.” Paralyzed by fear, hounded by personal demons, the poet bares himself in a fashion that every human being can relate to. Dante’s salvation comes through love, not the amorous dalliances he sang of as a boy, but the transformative self-giving love that confers meaning and purpose. The “Divine Comedy” is a love song about a man who learn to love more than himself.
Dante as Inspiration
As Dante painted pictures with words, so artists found inspiration in the images evoked by his poetry. Its most fertile terrain was Florence, where a repentant populace raced to embrace its rejected son. Chapel frescoes reconstructed the “Inferno” while Botticelli turned his genius to illustrating the entire poem. Michelangelo Buonarroti not only dabbled in poetry and knew the “Divine Comedy” by heart but referenced the work several times in his masterpiece: “The Last Judgment.”
“The Last Judgment,” 1536–1541, by Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel. (Public Domain)
But amazingly, long after the lights dimmed on the Renaissance and the Protestant Reformation gave way to the Enlightenment, Dante’s work continued to leaven secularized society. France, fascinated by the “Inferno” as are most Dante neophytes, seized upon the romantic tale from Canto V of Paolo and Francesca, adulterous lovers killed in “flagrante delicto,” and buffeted for all eternity by the winds of their passion. Dante’s own evident sympathy for the pair appears to lessen the gravity of their sin, which inspired French painters to depict everything from the romance of the furtive first kiss, to two lithe spirits whose eternal torment is portrayed as a graceful ballet.
In 1855, engraver Gustave Doré took on the herculean project of illustrating the entire opus. Finding no publisher, he took on the expense himself. Doré was gratified by not only the enthusiastic reception of the first book but by a telegram from his publisher reading, “Success! Come quickly! I am an ass!” The 135 drawings are, to this day, the most recognizable illustrations of the poem, where the engraver’s pen beat in perfect time with the poet’s words. Scratching the “Inferno” scenes out of heavy dark lines, Doré evoked tangled nature and lurking demons. When Farinata degli Uberti emerges from the abyss of heretics in Canto X, the haughty figure is surrounded by darkness, emphasizing his choice of prideful isolation.
Dante and Virgil enter the Infernal city of Dis where Farinata Degli Uberti rises from the flames. A Gustave Doré woodcut illustration from Canto X of “The Divine Comedy: The Inferno.” (Public Domain)
Light increases in the images of Purgatory. flickering over more energetic strokes, underscoring the dynamic aspect of the repentant souls working towards a goal. But Doré’s Paradise is a wonder to behold. Tiny lines cluster to form the exquisite, ethereal figures of saints and angels. Light permeates everything. Doré captures the rapturous power of love, drawing into the contemplation of mystery, a harmonious marriage of poetry and pictures.
Dante and Beatrice gazing at Empyrean, in Canto XXXI of Dante’s “Paradise,” illustrated by Gustave Doré. (Public Domain)
Thanks to Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” the English knew of the “Divine Comedy,” and the first full translation of the poem was made in 1802. This was followed by a translation by Henry Francis Cary, which would be illustrated by William Blake, who produced 102 watercolor illustrations before his death in 1827. Blake’s images exude vitality with splashy color and naïve figures, but they lack the majesty of Doré. The Pre-Raphaelite movement also dedicated many a canvas to the subject, complementing Dante’s descriptive verse with lavish imagery.
“Dante Running From the Three Beasts” by William Blake. In 1824, artist John Linnell commissioned Blake to illustrate Dante’s “Divine Comedy.” (Public Domain)
Dante disembarked in the New World thanks to Henry James Longfellow. Longfellow, who spent many years in Europe, had started translating sections of the “Divine Comedy” as early as 1839. His admiration for the work inspired his own 1855 opus, the “Song of Hiawatha,” the first epic poem of the United States. As Dante had sought to unify Italians through language, Longfellow aspired to knit together the new inhabitants of North America and its indigenous people by composing a love story set among Native American tribes against a backdrop of its natural beauty.
A 2013 edition of Longfellow’s translation of Dante’s “Divine Comedy.”
“Love, that in gentle heart is quickly learnt,” wrote Dante, proposing that no one is immune to the power of love. Longfellow translated that spirit into the nascent literature of the United States, as well as opening access for American students to read Dante’s work. With myriad translations in poetry or prose, and depictions from etchings to animations, Dante poem reveals that indeed, love is a many-splendored thing.
Elizabeth Lev is an American-born art historian who teaches, lectures, and guides in Rome.~Mom of 3 Who Lost 84 Pounds Says Her Daughter, 6, Is Finally Able to Hug Her Properly
A mother was finally able to get a proper hug from her 6-year-old daughter for the first time after she shed a whopping 84 pounds (38 kg).
Carla Ford, 33, ballooned to 224 pounds (101 kg) as she got into a habit of binge eating after becoming a mother while juggling a part-time job and returning to college to get the grades she needed to become a midwife.
She began gorging on Greggs sausage rolls, biscuits, vanilla lattes, chicken pesto pasta, and takeaways for nearly a decade.
“I was always brushing my weight under the carpet,” Carla said. “Truth be told I was so unhappy with how I looked. I would be in tears with how I let myself get.”
“So much so that I used to wash my hair twice a day to make sure it looked nice because that was the only thing I could instantly fix,” she added.
In March 2020, the mom of three, from Edinburgh, Scotland, went for a routine checkup at her GP surgery and was told she was on course to develop Type 2 diabetes. The news of her weight “eventually hit home.”
Devastated by the projected diagnosis, the trainee midwife was subscribed to antidepressants to help her cope with the news of the health scare.
Four months later, Carla decided to shift the pounds with a low-carb diet that sees people cut out the likes of bread and sugar.
“I had no time for me but when it was midway through the lockdown I thought, what with the health scare, if I don’t do something now it’ll never change,” Carla said.
She switched to a healthier diet comprising scrambled eggs, crispy bacon, and avocado for breakfast; followed by tuna salad with olives/cooked chicken and cheese for lunch; and cottage pie with swede mash and lots of buttered green veg for dinner; along with a deliciously guilt-free salted caramel blondie with whipped cream for dessert.
For snacks, Carla opted for healthier options, such as pork scratchings with alioli and cashew nuts.
“I completely overhauled my diet and the first four or five days were really tough as it’s a shock to your body,” Carla said. “But after a few months I noticed I was losing all the symptoms of my PCOS. The horrendous skin cleared up along with the excess facial hair and the feeling of being constantly hungry had also reduced.”
In addition to a change in diet, Carla began walking a lot more and signed up to go to the gym in November, after having already lost 70 pounds (32 kg).
“I also didn’t want to be doing a job where my weight would bring me down,” Carla said. “I didn’t want to be unfit while doing a 12-hour shift.”
Carla had worked hard for four years as a mature student to earn the grades she needed to get a place in university, juggling taking care of her three children at the same time.
Within six months of changing her diet, Carla reversed her trend toward diabetes, and her polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) symptoms have also reduced.
“I just feel so much better for it all,” Carla said. “I’ve tried so many diets over the years and seen my weight yo-yo but nothing has actually stuck.”
“This has and I’ve never felt better mentally or physically,” Carla added.
Carla mentioned that, recently, there has been a lot of attention given to the keto diet on social media, with some stating that it might be unhealthy and unsustainable, but for Carla, she says, this is not the case.
“It’s genuinely saved my life,” she said.
“I won’t ever go back to eating the way I did before now that I know what works for my body and the vast benefits I’ve had from reducing my carb intake,” she added.
Additionally, Carla has been receiving regular blood tests from her doctor in order to ensure that her body is working as it should with her new lifestyle. She now strongly believes that nutrition can help with so many issues that normally have medication prescribed.
Now weighing 140 pounds (63.5 kg), Carla says her remarkable weight-loss journey finally hit home when her daughter, Florence, hugged her one evening and said her “arms could reach one another.”
“She said ‘mummy my arms can touch one another now,'” Carla recalled. “It’s things like that which I never would have realized before but are obviously impacting her.”
On achieving her ideal weight, Carla said weight loss has enabled her to fulfill her dream to be a midwife, which she is currently training for at Edinburgh Napier University.
Carla also tracks her fitness and food regime on her Instagram account to help inspire others with their weight-loss journeys.
Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~How Temecula Businesses Outwitted the Pandemic
It’s an early Sunday morning in Temecula, California. The sun is high enough now to burn away the low-hanging mist that slides in from the ocean to reveal a Tuscan-like landscape of softly rolling hills, castlelike wineries, and expansive ranches famous for breeding and training championship quarter- and cutting horses.
Mark Matson (who looks like he could have stepped right out of a John Ford western) and his skilled horsewoman wife, Marika, are the owners of the Temecula Carriage Co. Along with their assistant, Arlene Eyerman, they’ve been up for a while, making sure the horses are fed, tack is polished, and their fleet of carriages is ready for today’s champagne clip-clop tours.
Visitors pause to listen to mariachi music outside Bolero at Europa Village in Temecula, Calif. (Courtesy of Jim Farber)
Ten or so miles away in the downtown section of Temecula known as Old Town, the cooking and serving staff at E.A.T Marketplace, led by Executive Chef Leah Di Bernardo, is busy frothing lattes, bagging freshly baked doughnuts, and serving a bevy of breakfast delights. Since its opening in 2010 just steps from the civic center, E.A.T has been one of Temecula’s favorite go-to spots.
A few blocks from E.A.T, on Front Street, the staff of Temecula’s stellar new eatery, the Small Barn, the creation of Dan and Cathy Gibson, is settling into the daily ritual of prepping the kitchen: checking the meat locker, selecting fresh produce, and slicing and dicing the ingredients that will appear on Chef Angelo Sosa’s lunch and dinner menus—including the restaurant’s signature 32-ounce Wagyu beef tomahawk steak.
Meanwhile, back in the vineyards, the expansive flagstone patio of Bolero Winery at Europa Village is getting set up for what is certain to be a festive day of music and wine-tasting, with everyone looking for some pandemic relief—from families celebrating birthdays to cabanas filled with colors-wearing bikers sipping Syrah.
And while masking and health protocols are still in effect, a year ago, at the height of the pandemic, none of these scenes would have ever seemed possible. It was only through a combination of fortitude, imagination, and some much-needed government assistance that these four companies were able to survive and come back the way they have. The fact that they are almost all hiring and training new staff is a testament to how far they’ve come.
When California clamped shut, revenue streams dried up and mass layoffs followed. The staff of E.A.T. was reduced to two—Leah Di Bernardo and her sister, Joanne Scott. When they got a call from the County of Riverside to start turning out thousands of meals for shut-ins as part of the state’s Great Plates program, they added staff and went into triage mode, working at a feverish pace. Di Bernardo described it as the equivalent of being in a war zone, complete with the lingering effects of PTSD, from which she says she is still suffering.
The grand expansion plans at Europa Village—including its lavish new casitas—were put on indefinite hold. The Gibsons’ vision for opening their amazing new restaurant went from dream to nightmare. The Matsons were so desperate they didn’t know if they’d be able to afford to feed their horses, which include their movie star Clydesdales, Chip and Floyd, which were featured in a Super Bowl-Budweiser parody ad.
The menu at E.A.T. in Temecula, California, includes a signature 32-ounce Wagyu beef tomahawk steak. (Courtesy of Jim Farber)
Dining-in stopped entirely. Construction slowed to a crawl. Bolero relied on wine sales to keep going. Fortunately for the Gibsons, they had their business as plant growers and vintners to fall back.
The answer was ingenuity.
If romantic Cinderella coach rides were out of the question, the Matsons thought, why not create a theme-park-type ride as an alternative. For Halloween, they offered socially distanced carriage rides pursued by a galloping headless horseman. A transformed barn became Santa’s gingerbread house workshop complete Old Saint Nick and his helpful elves. They created a Peter Rabbit egg hunt for Easter. Ironically, says Mark, the new events they created were so successful that he and Marika are thinking they might not even want to go back to business as usual.
Today Front Street in Old Town is bustling. Tasting rooms are open and wine is pouring throughout the valley. E.A.T almost resembles its former self, and the Small Barn is no longer a pipe dream but a culinary reality—think of it as the French Laundry next door to Texas Lil’s Mesquite Grill.
That’s Temecula!
When You Go
Visit Temecula: VisitTemeculaValley.com
The Small Barn: SmallBarn.com
Bolero at Europa Village: EuropaVillage.com/bolero
Temecula Carriage Co.: TemeculaCarriageCo.com
Jim Farber is a freelance writer. To read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.com~Over Friendly Octopus Grabs Hold of Diver for a Big Kiss in the Waters of Hawaii
A pair of divers were hoping to get up close and personal with some marine life when they plunged into the waters off Hawaii, but they probably never imagined how close they really would get.
Caleb Heikes and his diving companion were thrilled when they saw octopuses approaching them as they led a dive off the coast of Oahu. Caleb was then reduced to fits of laughter when one octopus decided to pull itself in for a kiss, and wrapped its tentacles around his head.
“This octopus was definitely not aggressive!” Caleb, who runs the diving firm Hawaiian Diving Adventures, said. “However, they are extremely curious and intelligent. If you take the time to befriend one, then they can become comfortable around you.”
Sharing details of the moment, Caleb recalled that he and his diving companion spent almost an hour with the octopus before it climbed onto his face.
“I had my hand placed next to it until it crawled up my arm and decided to sit on my face and have the bubbles from my regulator act like a jacuzzi,” Caleb said, adding that the whole time the octopus sat on his face, he just kept laughing about it.
“I didn’t expect it to sit on my face the way it did but like I said I think it liked the feeling of the bubbles,” Caleb said. “I definitely had a tentacle or two wrap around my lips and enter my mouth, that was a very bizarre feeling.
A cheeky octopus grabs onto a female diver’s bottom. (Caters News)
“They are kind of slimy and very soft and leave some of that slime behind when they decide to leave. Their suction cups are hard to describe but when they use them to pull you, they are very strong. It almost tickles.”
However, Caleb warned that, though octopuses are small, they are very strong and have a really sharp beak, and they can bite on things when they feel threatened.
An octopus grabs Caleb’s arm. (Caters News)
After eventually letting go of the passionate embrace, the octopus made sure to cling onto another female diver’s backside for a hug.
In explaining octopuses’ behavior further, Caleb noted the “eye contact they hold as they use their tentacles to figure out what you are. They definitely stare into your soul.”
Caleb also offers a word of caution: People shouldn’t go around picking up octopuses as some can be dangerous or poisonous.
“They are wild animals and should be left alone for the most part,” Caleb said, emphasizing that the octopuses in the photos are the ones he is lucky enough to see on his job and has taken the time to get to know them.
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~‘Regieoper’ Versus ‘Werktreue’: A New Act for Opera
Opera has become a joke in modern pop culture. From commercials to movies, it’s always considered funny to make a crack about opera and its singers. Tropes of stout blond singers in horned helmets and breastplates are all that most people know about opera. However, most people have never experienced real opera. Other than Mozart’s “The Queen of the Night” aria and a few Wagner choruses, most of opera’s beautiful music is unappreciated.
Unfortunately, modern opera stages rarely present traditional operas as they were written and have been enjoyed for centuries. In the 21st century, it has become standard practice in the United States to modernize or alter traditional operas. This practice, which originated in Germany in the 20th century, is called “Regietheater” or, when specifically applied to opera, “Regieoper.” Its antithesis is “Werktreue,” the German term for works that closely adhere to their creators’ original intentions.
Regieoper: The Director’s Opera
Regieoper elevates the director to an all-powerful position in creating a production, since it literally means “director’s opera.” In Regieoper, the stage director assumes a preeminent role, using his or her own concept rather than the established traditions. These ideas often veer from the composer’s or librettist’s intentions. The director’s changes may include modernizing the story to reflect contemporary political controversies, and often infuse a production with brutality, blood, and violence either for shock value, dramatic effect, or just for laughs.
The origin of Regieoper is traced to Swiss architect and staging theorist Adolphe Appia, who advocated the use of the new electric stage lighting for dramatic effect instead of just illuminating the performers. Although such ideas hardly sound comparable to the modernization now associated with Regieoper, his books on stage production—particularly of Richard Wagner’s works—encouraged impressionistic staging, which captured an integral spirit rather than realism and presentation of every detail.
At the 1951 Bayreuth Festival, Wieland Wagner, the composer’s grandson, was inspired by Appia’s ideas to create minimalist productions of his grandfather’s operas. Although Adolf Aber of The Musical Times found the impressionistic staging to be confusing, vague, and so dark that the action was barely visible, Wieland continued staging such productions throughout the 1950s and ’60s. This was the beginning of the modern Regieoper movement.
Regieoper productions run the gamut. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro” (“The Marriage of Figaro”), has been moved from a count’s Spanish mansion to a San Diego hotel. Giuseppe Verdi’s “Rigoletto” has been relocated from 16th-century Mantua to a 1960s Las Vegas casino. Mozart’s “The Abduction From the Seraglio” has been shifted from 16th-century Turkey to onboard the Paris Express in the 1920s and even to a “Star Trek” episode, starring Captain James T. (Kirk) Belmonte!
(L–R) Christiane Karg as Susanna, Rachel Willis-Sorensen as the Countess, and Serena Malfi as Cherubino in Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro,” updated to the 1930s. (Chris Lee/Metropolitan Opera)
Sometimes, in postmodern productions, the setting is not changed to just one new location and era. Instead, the elements and costumes from many cultures and periods are included. This results in a confusing hodgepodge that makes no historical sense, burying the plot in the jumble. For example, I saw a live production of George Frideric Handel’s “Giulio Cesare,” intended as a romanticized version of Julius Caesar’s political and romantic alliance with Queen Cleopatra. It was a comical potpourris of British redcoats, Bollywood dancing, 1920s flappers, Roman armor, World War II-era artillery, and enough blood to rival an R-rated film.
Cecilia Bartoli as Cleopatra in a modernized 2012 production of “Giulio Cesare,” at the Salzburg Festival. (Luigi Caputo – Salzburger Festspiele/CC BY-SA 3.0)
Werktreue: The Faithful Opera
The opposite of Regieoper is Werktreue. Literally translated as “faithfulness to the original,” this term is applied to musical productions, often opera, which consider fidelity to the creators’ intentions and notations the primary goal. Such productions give the director much less freedom and authority. Instead of adding personal interpretation and concepts to the production, the director’s job is to bring the libretto to the stage as faithfully as possible, just as the conductor endeavors to faithfully honor the score.
This approach doesn’t mean that the director’s job is easier in a Werktreue production. In fact, a truly traditional production requires more work from the director, who must conduct extensive research into the history of the work and its production to do the writers’ vision justice. It is far easier to be motivated only by one’s personal ideas and imagination.
Perhaps one reason this approach has lost favor and that operas have long been parodied is because of their soap opera-like drama. Classic opera plots contain melodramatic topics like unrequited love, indiscretion, infidelity, political intrigue, conspiracies, murder, and suicide. However, original productions depicted these topics delicately, not blatantly. Violence was implied, and amorous immorality occurred offstage.
Certainly the acting was not melodramatic. Acting was neither required nor expected of opera singers until the 20th century, before which singers would just sing. Audiences usually went to admire impressive vocalizing, beautiful music, and magnificent sets and staging. During the 18th and 19th centuries, people merely went to the opera to see and be seen, paying little attention to the performance.
Hungarian-German soprano Sylvia Geszty as Cleopatra in a traditional production of “Giulio Cesare,” from 1970 in Berlin. (Abraham Pisarek/CC BY-SA 3.0)
Regieoper or Werktreue?
Most American opera companies have embraced Regieoper trends because they need to sell tickets. Does this strategy work? By including potentially offensive content to draw younger crowds, they are likely alienating patrons who have been coming for years or even decades. It would seem more reasonable to cultivate a new audience of real opera lovers, those given the chance to learn to love operas as they were written.
There is also the question of whether the young will attend opera with added modern content. Does it really make operas more relatable or appealing? Will those needing fixes for lust and violence really turn to opera? This seems unlikely; therefore, it’s futile for opera to try to compete with movies in these areas. Instead, a new generation can learn to love opera for its own attributes.
Regieoper’s supporters argue that artists should be allowed to experiment with new ideas instead of doing the same old thing season after season. Since most operas are two or three centuries old, some directors understandably feel that they need updating. Inventive staging, newly designed costumes, and other creative ideas make familiar works new and exciting.
However, all these are possible in Werktreue productions. Rather than being rigid blueprints, traditional productions only provide guidelines. They still allow directors and designers room for creativity to explore stories; in addition, preserving the libretto’s original intentions honors those whose work is being presented.
Modernized productions not only distort classical operas but also disincline the creation of new operas in the classical form. Creative artists can instead express themselves by writing their own new works.
If opera is to continue to survive, let us hope that Werktreue productions will be reintroduced to the seasons of major opera companies. Old works still allow for great creativity, but if that’s not enough, let theater artists create new operas!
Tiffany Brannan is a 19-year-old opera singer, Hollywood history/vintage beauty copywriter, travel writer, film blogger, and ballet writer. In 2016, she and her sister founded the Pure Entertainment Preservation Society, an organization dedicated to reforming the arts by reinstating the Motion Picture Production Code.~Imperial Gem lavender in full bloom at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
Lavender Festival Will Offer Lavender Chocolate-Chip Cookies and Lemonade
VACAVILLE, Calif.—A field of lavender sways as a fresh breeze passes. Busy bees hover between sticks of purple and white that protrude from a green bush, like pins on a pincushion.
At Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, many varieties of lavender are blooming as the farm’s U-pick lavender festival begins.
The owner, Alexis Koefoed, told NTD Television that a friend of 20 years and she grow lavender together, naming their business Hierbas y Flores, which translates to “herbs and flowers” from Spanish.
Imperial Gem lavender in full bloom at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
“We make a lot of lavender products here at Hierbas y Flores, and it’s very common for lavender farms to sort of branch out and make added value products,” Koefoed said. “So here we make a lavender lip balm, a lavender sugar scrub, soap; we also make sashes so people can put lavender in their clothes drawers, and their clothes smell nice.”
The flowers come in shades of purple, blue, lavender, and white. The farmers grow many varieties for different uses.
White lavender blooms at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
They planted three rows of culinary varieties for food and desserts. The taller French varieties are used to make wreaths, crafts, and other decor.
They started growing lavender roughly seven years ago and decided to open the farm up for a U-pick lavender festival three years ago.
“They will be able to come out here. We’ll show them how to pick lavender and give them a tie, and anything they can fit in this tie is what they pay for. But to come to the event is free, and parking is free,” Koefoed said.
Alexis Koefoed demonstrates how to cut lavender at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
The festival runs for two weeks, from May 29 to June 13. Patrons of the event will be able to participate in two workshops: lavender wreath-making and wand-making.
On June 12, there will be vendors, and lavender lemonade and lavender chocolate chip cookies will be for sale.
Attendees are required to register for a time slot so that they can be spaced out. A maximum capacity of 40 people on the field will allow for social distancing and a relaxing experience.
Lavender for essential oils grows at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
Koefoed says she just wants people to get a chance to get out on a quiet farm to enjoy themselves.
“People are just happy to be out here. It’s a beautiful place, and we don’t rush anybody, so it’s a chance to get out, be at an event that’s not overwhelming. There’s not thousands of people, and it’s kind of quiet, and you can still hear the birds in the trees. It just has a nice old-world feel to it. And I think people like that,” she said.
She explained that the best way to harvest lavender is to cut near the base of the plant so the stem remains long.
A bouquet of Imperial Gem lavender at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
“Then when you get home you can just decide what you want to do with it, and you would have nice long stems to make a decision if it’s a floral arrangement or you’re going to hang it upside down to dry and have dried lavender flower bouquets,” she said.
Lavender is known for having calming, stress-reducing effects that help with sleep.
It can be made into essential oil, flower water, lotion, and tea, all of which the farm sells.~Mom Shares Startling Before and After Photos of Preemie With Favorite Blankie—Now Thriving
The mom of a premature baby documented her daughter’s miraculous growth, snapping photos of her next to her favorite toy and blankie.
Mary Akram, 22, was told to prepare for the worst when her daughter, Arabella, was born 13 weeks early in September 2020.
The tot weighed 2 pounds, 1 ounce (0.93 kg) at birth and spent the first 90 days of her life in an incubator and on a ventilator at The Royal Oldham Hospital while her lungs grew strong enough for her to breathe independently.
Baby Arabella in a hospital incubator as a newborn. (Caters News)
But the feisty newborn defied all odds to survive, and her parents, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, are now celebrating after doctors finally allowed them to bring her home in December.
And Arabella—who was once the size of her dad’s hand—is now huge in comparison to her favorite octopus toy and pink blanket which she was photographed next to in neonatal.
“We can’t believe the progress she’s made,” Mary said.
“We’ve got a journal showing her progress and when we look back we can’t believe she’s come such a long way from how she looked before to looking like a normal, healthy baby.
“She doesn’t look premature at all. It’s like that time never even happened, it feels like a blur.
Baby Arabella’s clothes before, and months later. (Caters News)
“When she was in hospital, we had to find clothes for a 2lb baby and now she’s in size 0–3 months. We can’t believe she was ever that tiny.
“The day we brought her home she was in the size just before newborn and we were absolutely buzzing.
“Arabella is now three times the size of the 11cm blanket we bought for her while she fought for her life in neonatal.
“We also have a toy octopus which looks tiny next to her now rather than the other way around.”
Baby Arabella next to her toy octopus and pink blankie after leaving the hospital. (Caters News)
Mary, a police officer, suspects she went into labor when she was out for a meal with soon-to-be dad Liam but says she felt no pain. When she went to the hospital for a checkup, midwives quickly realized the baby was in danger due to a membrane rupture.
“I had the healthiest pregnancy possible,” Mary said. “The midwives even said they didn’t need to see me again until I was 32 weeks because she was growing fine.
“When I was 26 weeks pregnant, I went for a meal with Liam and I felt like I’d wet myself so we both laughed and went home.
“I called the midwife just to be safe and she said I should go to hospital just in case but we didn’t really think anything of it.
“Within an hour of being there, I was filled with drugs and told I’d need to be taken to a labor ward. It all happened so fast.
“They couldn’t believe I wasn’t in any pain.”
Preemie baby Arabella. (Caters News)
They explained to her that she could give birth in the next hour, the next five hours, or the next seven days. She needed to stay at the hospital as it was important to keep Arabella in for as long as possible. Mary managed to keep her baby in for seven days.
“We thought she wasn’t going to make it,” Mary said.
“Liam wasn’t eating or sleeping but I had to stay positive because if I was stressed, the baby would be stressed and I think that’s what kept her in for seven days.
“It was weird because I was on a labor ward with women at a completely different stage to me and I didn’t even feel pregnant.”
Mary had a caesarean on Sept. 7, 2020, and Arabella was immediately taken away to an incubator where she stayed for the next three months.
Arabella beginning to thrive. (Caters News)
“When she was born, she didn’t look like a human,” the mom said. “She was so small and delicate.
“She was red raw and there were loads of specialists around her putting tubes in her.
“It was scary because it was literally life or death.
“When I first went to see her, I can’t even describe the feeling. I was broken.
“You couldn’t see what she looked like because her face was covered to protect her from the light.
“You could just see her tiny fingers and toes.
“Then when we went home without her it was horrible.
“We came home with no baby, no baby seat in the car and we just had the baby blues.”
Due to lockdown restrictions, the couple were only allowed to see their daughter for four hours a day, and when Mary and Liam were told they had to self-isolate, they were kept away from Arabella for two weeks.
Arabella after leaving the hospital. (Caters News)
The tot fought off three sepsis infections and put on a whole 8 pounds (3.6 kg) before doctors deemed her fit enough to head home.
“It was the worst three months of my life,” said Mary.
“It was horrible when she was in the hospital because were allowed four hours at a time with her but sometimes when we got there, she’d already been fed and that would mean we couldn’t hold her because she needed to rest.
“We were told we had to isolate for two weeks because we could have been in contact with someone who had COVID and being away from her for that long was horrendous.
“We were scared to hold her, we were told that if we touched her, we couldn’t slide or rub or anything because she was so delicate and it would be painful for her.
“She had some really bad days and she got sepsis three times but she just kept fighting it off.”
Now weighing a healthy 10 pounds (4.5 kg), Arabella is thriving and finally able to fit into her newborn babygros.
Adds Mary, “When she grows into anything it feels like a massive milestone and I feel really emotional.
“We are so pleased that we have the neonatal photos to look back on as she has grown so much since then.
“She’s such a character, she’s starting to smile.”
Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Summer, Shakespeare, Mendelssohn, and Weddings
Two works of art in the same medium can often be connected like pearls on a string, one leading to the creation of another, and then another. However, just as often, several works of art in different media can be interconnected in something more like a three-dimensional nexus. That can be fascinating to explore from any direction, whether starting with music, drama, dance, or even culture generally. I came across such a labyrinth recently when revisiting “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” in its various incarnations.
The question had arisen in casual conversation about the changing seasons, in regard to a cold spell that came through and threatened our newly planted garden. “When will summer finally begin?” I asked my wife in frustration. “And, by the way, when is ‘midsummer’? You know, like in Shakespeare? And why did he choose that as a title?”
To that, always a step ahead of me, she characteristically non-replied, “O, put on the Mendelssohn!” Composer Felix Mendelssohn (1809–1847) had written both a precocious overture to Shakespeare’s play in 1826 (Opus 21), when he was only 17, and then incidental music for the play 16 years later, which incorporated the earlier overture at the beginning (Opus 61).
I discovered that there is, in fact, a particular day called “midsummer,” traditionally June 24, in celebration of the summer solstice, a holiday that predates Christianity. (In some years, the solstice can vary slightly from that date.)
In northern countries, there is also an ancient note of magic about the day. In Sweden, it is a huge national holiday, with special foods and dancing around a pole. In Britain, there is dancing and drumming at the site of Stonehenge. It is a day when Shakespeare’s fairies and other magical creatures might indeed be expected to play a dreamlike role, hence his title.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream (Shakespeare, Act 4, Scene 1).” Engraving by Samuel Cousins after a painting by Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Public Domain)
Music and a Play Become a Ballet and a Wedding Tradition
Shakespeare’s story and Mendelssohn’s music found a natural intersection in dance. It so happens that the very first, original, full-length ballet choreographed by George Balanchine (1904–1983) was given its premiere by the New York City Ballet on Jan. 17, 1962, to Mendelssohn’s music and Shakespeare’s story.
Although Balanchine is widely known as a father of contemporary ballet, this work is choreographed quite elegantly and beautifully in the relatively traditional neoclassical style. Neoclassical ballet, invoking the simplicity of an ancient Greek look, retains the beautiful traditional music and the moves of Romantic ballet but sheds the grandiose sets and costumes in favor of clearer visuals so that one can really see the dancers’ arms and legs in motion. Balanchine’s version of the Mendelssohn remains a classic.
Another notable feature of Mendelssohn’s 1842 suite of incidental music for the play was his addition of his famous “Wedding March,” which has since been used for the bride’s entry procession at countless weddings, perhaps even for the weddings of many people reading this. How did that come about?
It seems that Queen Victoria originated several traditions that were borrowed by the people of England and eventually made their way to the United States and other countries. For example, she and her husband, Prince Albert, began putting up a Christmas tree inside their palace, a practice that he had grown up with in Germany but which was not the custom in England. Soon enough, most people in England had a tree at Christmas, and thus so do we.
Before Queen Victoria’s wedding, bridal gowns were not typically white—you guessed it—until she was married in a white gown. But in this case, it was her eldest daughter, Princess Victoria Mary Louise, who influenced the wedding customs. She was a fan of Mendelssohn’s music and set the example of using his “Wedding March” at her 1858 wedding to Prince William of Prussia.
That music was known to have been used at a wedding just once before, by Dorothy Carew and Tom Daniel in Tiverton, England, in 1847, but it was not until the princess used it that it came into vogue. In fact, having a procession up and down the aisle itself was an innovation at her wedding.
Queen Victoria began the tradition of the white wedding gown with her marriage to Prince Albert, but it was their daughter Princess Victoria Mary Louise who first set the example of using Mendelssohn’s “Wedding March.” Queen Victoria and Prince Albert after their wedding service at St James’s Palace in London. Engraved by S. Reynolds after F. Lock. (Public Domain)
Tradition Lives On, But Barely
From this line of inquiry, and having not been to a wedding lately, I naturally wondered whether people are still marrying in June and still using the wedding march. It appears that the midsummer month of June (whether due to Shakespeare or to the weather) is still the most popular month of the year in which to marry, with, according to The Inspired Bride blog, 10.8 percent of all weddings taking place that month, but it is closely followed by August, May, and July.
Mendelssohn’s wedding piece, and also Richard Wagner’s wedding march (popularly known as “Here Comes the Bride”) from his opera “Lohengrin” can still be heard at a few weddings, but some religious traditions have shunned them both, due to the pagan weddings in the Shakespeare play or the ultimately tragic fate of the couple in Wagner’s opera. Also, many couples are getting married in parks and other outdoor venues, where there are no organs or ensembles to produce the big sound ideal for those traditional wedding pieces.
Sheet music for Mendelssohn’s “Wedding March.” Illustration shows 1790s-era French bride and groom on their wedding day. Lithograph by Bufford, John H. & Sons; published by Oliver Ditson & Co. in 1888. (Boston Public Library/CC BY 2.0)
Instead, one hears all sorts of popular songs. Searching for the “top wedding songs” online produces no consensus whatsoever, but a whole range of popular hits, from Etta James, to Elvis, to Shania Twain, to Adele.
But as it turns out, according to Pew Research, only about half of couples marry at all now; the other half choose cohabitation. However, we like to think that traditions in decline, be they musical or marriage itself, can return and flourish once more with a new generation.
In any case, I have now traveled through this network of connections and hope to return again, full circle, to Shakespeare’s play, but to return even more often to the charming flutter of fairy wings produced by the violins after the opening five chords that begin both versions of Mendelssohn’s music for the play.
American composer Michael Kurek is the composer of the Billboard No. 1 classical album “The Sea Knows.” The winner of numerous composition awards, including the prestigious Academy Award in Music from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, he has served on the Nominations Committee of the Recording Academy for the classical Grammy Awards. He is a professor emeritus of composition at Vanderbilt University. For more information and music, visit MichaelKurek.com~Woman Is Shocked After Giving Birth to a Boy Weighing 12lb 9oz and Measuring 2 Feet Tall
A mother in England was left astonished after giving birth to a baby boy measuring two feet tall and weighing a whopping 12 pounds 9 ounces (5.7 kg). He was so big that he didn’t even fit on the weighing scales.
Amy, 27, and her husband Zac Smit, 28, from the Buckinghamshire village of Cheddington, were shocked when they first laid eyes on their son Zagrys, also known as Zeik.
Baby Zagrys Smit, also known as Zeik. (SWNS)
The mother of two, who underwent a C-section because of Zeik’s size, said: “He was so big that it took two people to lift him out.
“There were all these really small ladies around me, and I heard one of them saying, ‘I need some help, he’s enormous.'”
When the midwives lifted Ziek above the screen for Amy and Zac to see, Amy was in absolute disbelief looking at him.
“We knew he was going to be a tall baby because all the scans showed he was quite long, and both Zac and I are around the six-foot mark,” Amy said. “But we had no idea he would be that big.”
Ziek, who was born on March 25, didn’t even fit the scales when they wanted to weigh him. His mom says that they had to create a makeshift plank just to balance him as he was so long and wide.
Amy said she had bought clothes that would fit a 3-month-old baby as they expected him to be tall, but after Zeik was born, she had to ask her husband to go buy clothes for a 6-month-old baby as none of the previous clothes fit Zeik.
Amy and Zac’s first daughter, Lola, who was born in September 2018, was also a big baby and weighed 9 pounds 2 ounces (4.14 kg).
However, the mother was struck by how different her appetite was in both pregnancies.
Zeik with his parents Amy and Zac. (SWNS)
While expecting Zeik, Amy lost her appetite and just went off food.
“I never fancied any meals, I couldn’t eat meat or anything,” Amy said. “During my first pregnancy with Lola, I was snacking all day long, I couldn’t stop eating.”
Now, however, she can’t help but imagine how much bigger Ziek would have been if she had of eaten a lot more.
Ziek, who is now 2 months old, weighs 14 pounds 12 ounces (6.7 kg) and is a happy, smiley baby, according to his mother.
Zeik is now 2 months old. (SWNS)
His older sister is besotted with him and always wants to be with him and give him cuddles, calling him “my baby.”
Amy says her husband jokes around, saying that Zeik is going to be a rugby player. “He’s South African so he’s really into his rugby, and with Zeik’s size, he’s already calling him our little rugby player,” Amy said.
Lola with her baby brother, Zeik. (SWNS)
Despite Zeik’s huge size, though, he hasn’t won the title of United Kingdom’s biggest baby, which is currently held by George Joseph King who was born in February 2013 at Gloucester Royal Infirmary weighing a staggering 15 pounds 7 ounces (7 kg).
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~5 Tricks to Organize Your Home Like a Boutique Hotel
What makes a hotel stay feel luxurious is often the simplest of things: fluffy towels, clean sheets, and mini toiletries—there whenever you need them. Do you want to recreate that same sense of indulgence in your own space? Use these organizational ideas to give your home the five-star treatment.
Restock and Refresh Your Bath Towels
You probably need more fluffy, white bath towels. To achieve hotel-level luxury, invest in three-to-four towels per person. Hotels typically stock white towels because they can be bleached, and because they will always look clean and never mildew. Plus, they can all be washed together in one load of laundry.
The surefire way to make a weeknight shower feel more spa-like? Buy a warmer that will make your towel toasty in less than 20 minutes.
Create a Hotel-Worthy Bed
Consider investing in a couple more sets of sheets. Think about it this way: If you currently rotate between the set on your bed and the set in the wash, you either have to do laundry often or go awhile between washes. The solution: Buy more spare sheets so you can have clean bedding without doing so much laundry.
Take another tip from boutique hotels and keep a cozy spare blanket on hand, either draping it across the end of your bed or tucking it into a basket nearby.
Clean Out the Linen Closet
If you have space in your bathroom, embrace the hotel vibe by leaving a big pile of fluffy towels on display. If not, it’s time for a linen closet clean-out. Donate or recycle old towels and sheets you no longer use. Then, label shelves for bath towels and others for bed sheets in specific sizes.
For a truly five-star feel, keep a bottle of scented fabric spray in your linen closet so you can lightly spritz sheets before making the bed.
Clear Your Nightstand
So what’s the easiest way to make your bedroom feel hotel-worthy in the next 15 minutes? Declutter your nightstand. Remove any bedside reading you aren’t working on right now, and leave space for a glass of water and a soft lamp.
If you can’t resist keeping your phone near the bed, invest in a sleek, wireless charger so at least you won’t have to hunt for lost cords every night.
Declutter the Bathroom Counter
In a hotel bathroom, you’ll often find a small, curated selection of toiletries set on a tray. Try the same trick at home. Arrange a storage tray using only the skin care and hair care products you use every single day. The rest can be stashed in drawers, cabinets, or storage bins.
If you forget to pack a toothbrush, most hotels have extras they can drop off at your room. For the same effect at home, stock one drawer in your bathroom with spare toothbrushes, a new tube of toothpaste, soaps, and other essentials. You’ll always have what you need, without having to call the concierge.
Katie Holdefehr is a senior editor at RealSimple.com. Real Simple magazine provides smart, realistic solutions to everyday challenges. RealSimple.com. Copyright 2021 Meredith Corporation. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~Safari-Goer Spots Incredibly Rare Melanistic Serval Wildcat, and the Photos Are Amazing
One of the world’s most elusive species of wildcat with a rare genetic trait has been snapped by a lucky photographer at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro.
Brahmanand Kori, 21, was able to photograph the melanistic serval while visiting Amboseli National Park in Kenya earlier this month.
A wild serval with a rare genetic trait is shown with Mount Kilimanjaro in the background. (Caters News)
The black serval walked onto a road, presenting Kori with a perfect photo opportunity. (Caters News)
Melanism is a trait in animals characterized by an excess of the dark pigment melanin which causes animals’ fur and skin to appear darker.
The photographer captured incredible moments of his encounter with the serval—including the wildcat gingerly crossing through the grass with the snowy peaks of the dormant volcano as a backdrop; and a shot of the serval peaking through the grass, directly at the camera lens, despite their usual shyness.
It is extremely rare to encounter serval cats in the wild due to their small size and ability to blend into their habitat.
The rare wildcat looked into the camera as Kori snapped photos. (Caters News)
The serval eventually returned into the tall grass. (Caters News)
For Kori to have captured on camera one of the wildcats with the dark melanistic trait is all the more incredible, as there’s only a 25 percent chance that a serval might inherit the trait from parents that both carry the recessive gene.
The wildlife photographer’s hands even started to shake with excitement when he first saw the serval in the park, hardly believing his luck after his sister—whom he was traveling with—spotted a pair of tiny black ears.
The photographer called the moment “a scene I’ll never forget.” (Caters News)
“In a few minutes she came out and was walking towards the road,” Kori said. “It was the perfect opportunity to get a clear shot. The serval then went on to the other side of the road.
“After following her for some more time she gave us a clear view of her in the open and even looked straight at my lens. All that time we spent with the serval was in the presence of the mighty Mount Kilimanjaro in the backdrop.
“Finally, the serval started walking to the left of us and behind her was the mighty Kilimanjaro. It’s a scene I’ll never forget.”
The melanistic serval peers at the camera through the tall grass. (Caters News)
Kori said he feels “lucky and blessed” to have been able to photograph the very rare cat. (Caters News)
Eventually, the beautiful serval returned to the tall grass, popping its head up at times, then looking at the photographer’s lens one last time before departing for good.
It was an incredible experience for Kori, who at one point got as close as 30 feet (10 meters) to the serval and got to spend 20 minutes documenting the wonderful moment.
When asked how he felt afterwards, Kori said: “I always want to experience a new challenge. I’d never imagined that I’d get a chance to photograph one of the rarest cats in the world. The most incredible element of a safari is ‘luck.’
“I feel incredibly lucky and blessed after I got to see and photograph this very rare cat.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~7 Unexpected (Yet Totally Delicious) Ways to Make Potato Salad Without Mayo
It’s hard to beat a classic potato salad made with creamy mayonnaise. But good news for the mayo-averse: The winning combination of potatoes and mayo isn’t where this backyard barbecue favorite ends.
There are a number of condiments that work equally well as a potato salad dressing—so whether you’re in need of a mayo substitute or you’re simply in the mood to bring something different to the party this year, you’ve got plenty of options.
Tahini
The sesame paste most commonly used to make hummus not only lends creaminess to potato salad, but also adds nutty, toasted flavor. It’s sure to have people guessing what the secret ingredient in your salad is.
Pesto
Stir pesto into most things and it will be better—and that definitely includes potato salad. Pick up your favorite store-bought brand to keep things easy on yourself, or if you have an abundance of basil in your backyard, make your own.
Buttermilk
A splash of buttermilk is often added to traditional mayo-based potato salad to thin out the mayo and offset it’s full flavor with a touch of tang, but it can also be used on its own if you’re looking for a little creaminess that’s not overpowering.
Greek Yogurt
If you already have a tub of Greek yogurt in your refrigerator for your morning granola routine, you have one of the best substitutes for mayo ready and waiting. You can swap in all or some of the mayo called for in a potato salad recipe with Greek yogurt. You’ll just want to opt for full fat to achieve the richest, creamiest taste (although low-fat can be used if you prefer).
Sour Cream
Sour cream and potatoes are a natural pairing (think baked potatoes!). Like yogurt, sour cream brings creaminess with the addition of tang. It can also be used in place of or in combination with mayonnaise.
Vinaigrette
The simple vinaigrette you use to dress your green salad every night is also a solid choice for your potato salad. To get the most bang out of it, toss it with the potatoes while they’re still warm, so it can soak into them and make each bite extra flavorful. Or, go bold with a vinaigrette made of bacon fat.
Olive Oil
Yes, you can dress your potato salad with just olive oil. Good olive oil can be equally as rich and flavorful as mayo. Again, toss it with the potatoes while still warm to ensure they’ll absorb it easily, and toss in extra spices or chopped fresh herbs too.
Jesse Szewczyk is the studio food editor at TheKitchn.com, a nationally known blog for people who love food and home cooking. Submit any comments or questions to editorial@thekitchn.com. Copyright 2021 Apartment Therapy. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~Convenience Store Owner Finds Discarded $1 Million Lottery Ticket, Returns It to Customer
A family-owned convenience store in Southwick, Massachusetts, recently returned a $1 million winning lottery ticket to a customer who’d unwittingly discarded it.
The customer, a frequent patron of Lucky Stop convenience store, had bought the ticket from Aruna Shah, the store owner’s wife. But the customer handed it back to be tossed out, assuming it was just another bust.
(L-R) Abhi Shah with his parents, Aruna and Maunish Shah, who own Lucky Stop. (Courtesy of Abhi Shah)
Ten days later, Abhi Shah, the owner’s son, went through the discarded tickets in the trash bin and noticed that the card had not been scratched.
“I scratched the number and it was one million dollars underneath the ticket,” Abhi told WWLP. Upon realizing the customer’s mistake, Abhi found himself on the fence, unable to decide whether to keep the winnings or return the ticket to the customer.
“I mean, I had one million dollars in my hand, and on the other hand I wanted to do something good,” Abhi admitted to the station.
Lucky Stop in Southwick, Massachusetts. (Screenshot/Google Maps)
Uncertain, he consulted his parents in making the tough choice. They sat down and deliberated on what to do—not an easy decision with so much money.
“We didn’t sleep two nights,” said Maunish Shah, owner of Lucky Stop.
Still unresolved, Abhi decided to consult his grandparents in India.
“He called my mom, grandparents in India, they said give it back we don’t want that money,” Maunish said.
Lea Rose Fiega with her $1 million lottery winnings. (Courtesy of the Massachusetts State Lottery)
The family, following the advice of their elders, handed the ticket back to customer Lea Rose Fiega when she returned to the store.
When she was handed the ticket worth $1 million, she was in shock.
“As soon as she came in, I hand her 1 million dollar ticket and she freaked out and cried like a baby,” Abhi said. “She sat down on the floor right here.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Rewind, Review, and Re-Rate ‘633 Squadron’: A Special Aircraft and the Men Who Flew It
Not Rated | 1h 42min | Drama, War | 1964
The year is 1944 and World War II has reached a fevered pitch. Although the Germans have already been defeated by the Allies in North Africa and things are going poorly for them in Italy, the Axis still controls much of Europe.
The ever-resourceful British have come to rely on their twin-engine Royal Air Force (RAF) de Havilland DH.98 Mosquito aircraft to carry out bombing missions against the Axis with the hopes of tipping the scales of war in their favor. Although these so-called Wooden Wonders (they were composed almost entirely of wood) had only been in service a few years, they’d more than proven their reliability and effectiveness.
A Dangerous Mission
Director Walter Grauman’s rousing extravaganza “633 Squadron” covers the exploits of these aerodynamic wonders (among the fastest aircraft of their time) and of their pilots. In straightforward text at the beginning of the film, we read: “This story is inspired by the exploits of the Royal Air Force and Commonwealth Mosquito air crews during World War II.”
The film kicks off into high gear as Norwegian resistance leader Lt. Erik Bergman (George Chakiris, “West Side Story”) and his men ambush a contingent of Germans in Nazi-occupied Norway. Bergman then travels to the UK in order to divulge the whereabouts of a secret German V-2 rocket fuel plant to Air Vice Marshal Davis (Harry Andrews).
Davis then tasks Wing Commander Roy Grant (Cliff Robertson), an American veteran of the Eagle Squadron (the RAF’s U.S. volunteer contingent), who leads a motley crew of British Mosquito bomber pilots, to carry out a do-or-die mission and take out the German installation.
(L–R) Air Vice Marshal Davis (Harry Andrews), Norwegian Lt. Erik Bergman (George Chakiris), and Wing Commander Roy Grant (Cliff Robertson), in “633 Squadron.” (United Artists)
Since the V-2 rockets were a powerful, long-range weapon that Hitler intended to launch against England and other Allied countries, destroying the facility would save many lives, both military and civilian alike. Grant remarks that his men are weary from their recent air sorties, but since his unit, the 633 Squadron, is so effective, he accepts the mission anyway.
During the mission briefing, it is revealed that the Germans have made the V-2 fuel plant extremely difficult to assault. It not only lies at the end of a narrow fjord studded with flak (anti-aircraft artillery) north of Bergen, but it’s also virtually impregnable to conventional bombs. Grant is told that the only way to take it out of operation is to bomb the entire cliff overhanging the plant, thereby entombing it under tons of rubble.
Soon, the good ol’ “633 Squadron” is off to Scotland, where it trains for the mission by maneuvering nimble Mosquitoes through the narrow glens located therein. During a night of raucous boozing at a local pub, Bergman introduces his sister, Hilde (Maria Perschy), to Grant and there’s a hint of a romance.
A possible romance is introduced between Hilde Bergman (Maria Perschy) and Roy Grant (Cliff Robertson), in “633 Squadron.” (United Artists)
The secret Allied mission is to be a two-pronged attack: The Norwegian resistance will conduct an initial assault to disable the anti-air guns in the fjord, followed up by a pinpoint bombing run by Grant and his flyboys on the V-2 fuel installation.
Things quickly go sideways when a large contingent of German soldiers shows up and forces Bergman to return to Norway in order to bolster his forces. However, Bergman gets captured by the Germans and taken to Gestapo headquarters. There, he is relentlessly tortured for information.
Will Grant be able to save his friend and fellow Nazi killer, Bergman, or will he have to take more drastic measures to ensure that no intelligence is leaked? Will the entire mission become jeopardized because of this issue, along with other setbacks?
Sights and Sounds
Composer Ron Goodwin’s spirited score matches the peppy pace of the unfolding action. These rousing melodies pair nicely with the outstanding cinematography by Edward Scaife (1967’s “The Dirty Dozen”). The aerial combat scenes are outstanding, and the film crew used a combination of vintage Mosquitos as well as models of the famous aircraft, used mainly in scenes in which they are destroyed.
A scene showcasing cinematographer Edward Scaife’s work in “633 Squadron.” (United Artists)
In all, this is a fine World War II film that showcases that the Allied war effort was truly an international affair. Robertson’s acting is superlative as ever, while Chakiris’s performance is surprisingly capable and understated, showing that he was more than just a pretty face in his prime.
“633 Squadron” is a well-paced and highly entertaining tribute to all the men who designed, built, and flew the remarkable RAF de Havilland DH.98 Mosquito in combat against the German Empire during World War II.
‘633 Squadron’
Director: Walter Grauman
Starring: Cliff Robertson, George Chakiris, Maria Perschy
Not Rated
Running Time: 1 hour, 42 minutes
Release Date: 1964
Rated: 4.5 stars out of 5
Ian Kane is a filmmaker and author based out of Los Angeles. To learn more, visit DreamFlightEnt.com or contact him at Twitter.com/ImIanKane
Correction:
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the film’s title. The correct film title is “633 Squadron.” The Epoch Times regrets the error.~2 College Students Meet by Chance on Bus, Discover They Once Lived in Same Orphanage in China
A pair of Virginia college students thought they were strangers when they found themselves sitting beside each other on a campus bus.
But after striking up a casual conversation, they found they had some incredible things in common: they were both adopted, and both came from the same orphanage—in China.
The two students say their meeting was nothing short of God’s will.
It was Ally Cole, 21, who filled the empty seat beside Ruby Wierzbicki, 19, back in April. They swapped profiles of their hometowns—Ally is from Maryland and Ruby, New Jersey.
Ally Cole (L) and Ruby Wierzbicki. (Courtesy of Ruby Wierzbicki and Ally Cole)
Then they learned they’d both been adopted from China to the United States. In a country of 1.44 billion people, the chances of them coming from the same place are practically nil.
But they had. Both had been born in the city of Jinan.
Moreover, the chances of them meeting on a swarming college campus—Liberty University, in Lynchburg, Virginia—were even slimmer. Yet, scrolling for photos, the pair held their devices side by side and found proof.
“We realized that everything matched, and we knew that it had to be the same place,” Ruby told Liberty’s news outlet. It turns out, they’d been adopted just a week apart, from the Jinan Social Welfare Institute 15 years ago. Ally was 6 at the time, while Ruby was 4.
(Left) A photo shows Ruby (L) and Ally (R) together as children. (Courtesy of Ruby Wierzbicki and Ally Cole); (Right) Ally (L) and Ruby. (Courtesy of Ally Cole)
They stepped off the campus bus and delved deeper into the incredible coincidence; the students even found photos of themselves standing next to each other, neither knowing who the other girl was at the time.
“Ruby had a lot of photos of me that I’d never seen before and photos where we were together,” said Ally. “We even had a mutual friend from the orphanage, Emma, that we each had photos with.”
Ruby said the pair were in shock.
(Left) Ruby in China; (Right) Ally at the same orphanage. (Courtesy of Ruby Wierzbicki and Ally Cole)
Ally concurred, “I think I was just in shock that I actually knew someone from my past. I think it didn’t really hit me until after I went to class.”
The 21-year-old had already made peace with the blank space of her past, but embraced filling in some of the missing pieces with her new friend Ruby, calling the opportunity a blessing.
Both students had also chosen other colleges initially before falling in love with Liberty, a private evangelical Christian university, during a College For A Weekend tour. Ruby studies exercise science; meanwhile, Ally studies graphic design.
“God really does have our lives according to His plan and in His control,” Ruby reflected.
(Left) (Courtesy of Liberty University); (Right) Ruby (R) and Ally reunited years later in the U.S. (Courtesy of Ally Cole)
“There are people I’ve talked to about this and they’ve said, ‘What a coincidence,’” she continued. “But we think that this is 100 percent God.
“There’s no way that two people who were in the same orphanage in a different country can somehow end up at the same school at the same time, and have it not be God.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~On Living and Dying: Advice From a Doctor Who Deals With Terminally Ill Patients
Learning to live with the inevitable in a post-COVID world
The COVID-19 pandemic may finally be slowing, but the pandemic has shone a stark light on one human problem that we’ll never escape. One day books analyzing the pandemic will fill whole rows in libraries, but no analysis can dim the glaring human condition that we must face—the fact that we’re all going to die. A patient dying from ALS said it best, “No one makes it out alive.”
Many of us have thought more about death this past year than ever before as few of us have been unscathed by the death of an acquaintance, a loved one, or friends’ loved ones. Psychologist Ronnie Janoff-Bulman explains, “Once you know that catastrophe dwells next door and can strike anyone at any time, you interpret reality differently.” As we reinterpret the reality of today in light of our future imminent death, let us take a hard look at just exactly how we’re going to let loose of this earth.
As a doctor who deals with terminally ill patients, I know four things are true:
1. Most of us assume we are going to live to a ripe old age. However, no one is guaranteed tomorrow. There is no time like the present for making preparations regardless of age or health status. It can provide a surprising comfort to think through and write out your final wishes. Many online assists are available to guide you through the process. We plan for many life events with intensity such as births, marriages, anniversaries, and birthdays. It is valuable to plan for this crucial time of life, and it is still life. In truth, I have seen so many living their best life once given a terminal diagnosis.
2. Those who wait until they get a grim prognosis to start pondering these matters often find the process more difficult. It is challenging to have end-of-life discussions in times of crisis when everyone’s emotions are more volatile. I have been witness to so many families under stress becoming divided when opinions differ on what should be done as decision trees are presented by the medical team. In critical situations, families can focus more fully on the care and love of the patient rather than wondering what the patient would want.
3. Conversations about death and dying make most people uncomfortable, fearful or sad, even though the conversation itself does not increase our chances of dying. But, thinking through end-of-life issues within our control is not morbid—it is wise. Take two real-life examples.
The first was my friend Lani. When she learned that she had less than two years to live, she fought hard, mostly for her family. I was amazed to learn that two years earlier she had cleaned out her closets and attic. “Get rid of that stuff,” she told me personally, “your kids won’t want it.” She had prepared, so she was able to spend her last months enjoying life and enjoying her family. I remember her bedroom in her home as being a beautiful place of quiet and peace. That’s where she passed away, surrounded by her big family.
The other example is a man named Ralph. He was far from an ideal father or husband. A robust man, he didn’t seem anywhere near death, but a massive stroke brought him to the brink. Ironically, this father who had never done much for his family had prepared for his death by completing an online $5 directive known as “Five Wishes.” In his final months, as his children ministered to his needs according to his written directives, they got to know a dad who was vulnerable, and in his vulnerability, he became lovable. The last gift he gave his children—his planning—was the best gift he ever gave his children. And the last months of his life were the best months of his life.
People ask me how to talk about death with younger children. A recent article in Parents Magazine emphasized the importance of talking with our children about death, even when they are young, to avoid confusing and often terrifying feelings. I still remember how terrified I was as a child when I watched the animated film “Bambi” and—spoiler alert—the death of Bambi’s mother. My grandson was terrified in “The Lion King” when—spoiler alert—death claimed Mufasa.
The reality is that most kids’ movies feature dying or death as a prominent theme. We need to talk openly with our children about those sad and scary scenes, listening more than we talk.
4. Most faith traditions offer spiritual (and even non-spiritual) guidance to their adherents who are dying and to those who love them. The Jewish faith, for example, has rituals that take into account the theological, practical, and emotional needs of the terminal patient. The rightness or wrongness of our beliefs will become evident after death, but the preparation that precedes that last breath is valuable and integral to the dying process. Those who do not prepare seem to suffer more, and families that are left to deal with an unexpected, sudden death seem to suffer the most.
Once we are comfortable with the concept of our own death and make a plan for how we’re going to die, we can join with those who make light of this inescapable human condition. We can laugh with Jerry Seinfeld who says, “Make no mistake about why these babies are here—they are here to replace us.” And we will leave earth with the confidence that we’re not burdening those babies, but actually blessing our families.
Dr. Pamela Prince Pyle has practiced hospital-based medicine in the U.S. since 1992 and on mission since 2009 with Africa New Life Ministries in Rwanda. She is the author of “A Good Death: Learning to Live Like You Were Dying.”~Malaysian Researcher’s First Eco-Friendly Drone Has Parts Made of Pineapple Leaf Waste
Malaysian researchers have been working on sustainable solutions for pineapple waste since 2017, and now they have ultimately landed on an airborne innovation: eco-friendly, biodegradable drone parts made from pineapple leaf fibers.
The pineapple leaves—which are usually burned during the annual pineapple harvest—were collected from farmers in the Hulu Langat district by a team at University Putra Malaysia (UPM).
The processed, sinewy fibers were used to build the skeleton of their so-named Putra Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), the university said in a statement.
Professor Mohamed Thariq Hameed Sultan, a research team leader at Malaysia’s Putra University. (Courtesy of Universiti Putra Malaysia)
The Putra UAV is the “first such innovation” on record to use natural fibers from pineapple leaves, plus rechargeable motors, blades, and batteries to support its functionality, according to the statement.
UPM’s professor Mohamed Thariq Hameed Sultan, the head of the research team, said in the statement that “most drones are currently made of plastic, carbon fiber, and aluminum which are categorized as synthetic fibers.”
In test flights, the innovative drone reached altitudes of 30 meters (approx. 100 feet) and was able to sustain flight for up to 20 minutes at a time, the statement said.
Professor Sultan told Reuters that the Putra UAV’s bio-composite skeleton has a “higher strength-to-weight ratio” than its synthetic counterparts, and is cheaper and lighter.
He said a fully dysfunctional bio-composite skeleton could be buried in the ground, where it “would degrade within two weeks.”
One of the drone’s most beneficial features, besides its eco-friendly skeleton, is its capacity for electrical resistance that can prevent the device from short-circuiting, according to the UPM statement.
The team at UPM is working closely with Malaysian pineapple farmers as their research continues, with sights set on a larger, sturdier drone with image sensors to assist in farming and aerial inspections.
William Robert Alvisse of the Malaysian Unmanned Drones Activist Society, an NGO working with UPM on future designs using bio-composite materials, told Reuters that their team is working to “help the industry, the farmers, to increase their yield and make their jobs much easier.”
According to Reuters, farmers are looking for income solutions amid the ongoing pandemic and are encouraging this new demand for the pineapple stems and leaves that were once merely discarded waste material.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Mom Quit Law School to Raise Kids—but Son Who Died in Iraq Inspires Her to Graduate at Age 60
After quitting college to raise a family, mom of three Deanna “Dee” House held onto her dream of one day finishing her law degree.
Dee had cut short her education after one semester at the University of Maine School of Law in 1992.
Later, devastated when her son Joel, a soldier, was killed in Iraq, his bravery propelled her to re-enroll after a 30-year hiatus.
She recently graduated at the age of 60.
Dee with her three children, (L-R) Luke, Joel, and Joy. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
“I decided to go back to Lee and raise my family and it wasn’t an easy decision at all,” Dee told ABC. “I was very sad for many years.”
When Joel died in 2007, the gold star mom said his death “basically took a 10-year slice” out of her life. Over the years, the pain from her loss persisted; but by 2017, Dee was ready to reclaim her dream.
She was accepted back to UM’s School of Law just before Christmas.
A photo with Deanna (Far Right), Joel in uniform (C), her husband (Far Left), and other family members. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
“I had pretty much thought that law school was not gonna happen for me in my lifetime,” she said. “I imagined over the years that I could do it, but I didn’t know what I was getting into at 57 years old.”
Finally, though, on May 22, 2021—after three years of tireless work—Dee crossed the stage in cap and gown at her graduation to receive her Juris Doctorate, while proud family members applauded her achievement.
Joking that her grad photos show “an old lady” looking back at her, Dee answered that she still feels like a girl on the inside.
“Today I’m looking back, thinking, ‘Oh my God. I can’t believe it,’” she added.
Deanna House’s graduation photo from the University of Maine School of Law. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
Besides fulfilling a personal milestone, she hopes her degree will further another cause of hers, and her husband’s—a nonprofit retreat for veterans in her hometown of Lee.
Dee explained to The Epoch Times via email that House in the Woods Military & Family Retreat offers the healing outdoor experiences of hunting, fishing, and other leisure activities as a “way to get veterans together in a safe and relaxing environment.”
Dee at the Fort Hood, Texas, Iraqi Freedom Memorial Monument beside her son’s name. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
Both Dee and her husband want to nationalize the organization framework to establish retreats all across the United States. Bolstered by her recent academic success, she is hopeful for the future.
At the same time, she also believes that her late son had a hand in things.
“Joel has sent me gifts from Heaven over the years,” she said.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Hoping to Save Endangered Heritage Crafts in the UK
The Heritage Crafts Association Red List of Endangered Crafts 2021
What does the making of glass eyes, ballet pointe shoes, and mouth-blown sheet glass have in common? They are three of twenty heritage crafts that have been newly classified as “critically endangered” in the UK, a classification which means that those craft skills could disappear in a generation.
A skilled artisan at English Antique Glass Ltd. in Birmingham, England, practices the old craft of mouth-blown sheet glass, which is now “critically endangered” in the UK. (English Antique Glass Ltd.)
On May 24, a total of 130 “endangered” and “critically endangered” heritage crafts were announced, when an updated version of the 2019 “HCA Red List of Endangered Crafts” was published. The 2021 list is the third edition published by The Heritage Crafts Association (HCA). And this year, The Pilgrims Trust funded the research.
The HCA is an independent UK charity set up by craftspeople and supporters of crafts as a direct response to a perceived lack of recognition and support for traditional craftsmanship in the UK.
“When we were set up in 2009, one of the things that we were so concerned about was to make sure that heritage crafts skills are passed on. They have been passed on through and down the generations to us and we are, our generation, the guardians of these crafts skills,” HCA Chair Patricia Lovett said at the press launch, hosted on Zoom.
Compass making is newly classified as a “critically endangered” craft in the UK. Yorkshire-based B. Cooke & Son Ltd. continues to make compasses by hand. (Glen Milner/B. Cooke & Son Ltd)
Challenges for Heritage Crafts
The research paints a complicated picture of heritage crafts practiced in the UK, which is hard to put into a coherent narrative, HCA operations director Daniel Carpenter said.
What is clear is that the research brings a greater awareness of the types of crafts practiced in the UK and the specific challenges that each craft skill faces to survive.
Interestingly, while the pandemic undoubtedly has put many craftspeople under considerable pressure, anecdotal signs suggest that the crisis has accelerated changes in society that could benefit heritage crafts, Carpenter said. For instance, people have been reevaluating the world of work and are looking for more fulfilling ways to earn a living. People are also choosing to support more local businesses. The heritage crafts industry also had to create new sources of revenue due to the UK lockdowns and the loss of traditional sources of income, and so the number of online marketing and tutorials showing crafts increased.
But sadly, the stress of running a business during a pandemic has also meant that some skilled craftspeople decided to take early retirement.
Some challenges are consistent across the board: Certain crafts have skilled makers who are approaching retirement and no one is interested in learning the craft. Additionally, the maker has little time or funding to pass on the craft skills to an apprentice. But the HCA is hopeful that there will be future funding for apprenticeships. The association is currently in talks with the Department for Education and the Institute of Apprenticeships & Technical Education.
The HCA’s Endangered Crafts manager, Mary Lewis, who researched and compiled this year’s list, emphasized that while some obstacles facing crafts require funding or policy change, change can also come from the craftspeople themselves. “One of the things I’ve learned while working with makers is that they have the best ideas about how to preserve their crafts. It’s for this reason that we make sure we have makers represented at every level in our organization,” she said.
The Makers
The new Red List is a rich tapestry of heritage crafts practiced in the UK. “Heritage crafts are not just dusty old handcrafted relics. And this [list] is not a bow to a misty-eyed vision of the past. This is about a wide variety of skilled people working today to create high-quality, beautiful, functional items that add value to our lives,” Lewis said.
The number of people focusing their energies on preserving and protecting these specialist skills is on the increase, she explained. For example, Devon stave basket making was virtually extinct when it was put on the Red List. But Lewis is happy to say that there are now five professional makers, another in training, and some courses on the craft’s skill. “These are small gains, but they’re significant,” she said.
Some heritage crafts may sound familiar, such as hat making, which is one of the newly endangered crafts. But some of the niche craft skills within that category are lesser-known. For instance, have you heard of bowed felt hats?
View this post on Instagram A post shared by The Crafty Beggars (@thecrafty_beggars)
Rachel Frost makes bowed felt hats and uses a seven-foot-long bow to prepare the fibers for felting. She describes how a bow is used to separate and fluff the wool fibers: “There’s a gut string stretched along its length that when plucked with a wooden pin vibrates, and the vibration picks up the fibers and sends them flying magically across the table to land in a pile on the other end of the table.” The fluffy fibers are then ready for the felting stage, which is done over a wood-burning stove with steam, hot water, and lots and lots of manipulation, she said.
Strikingly, diamond cutting is now critically endangered, with less than 10 skilled diamond cutters in the UK, largely due to competition from overseas diamond cutters, Lewis said.
Kilt making is newly classified as an “endangered craft” in the UK. Kilt maker Amanda Moffet hand-sews a kilt at The Kiltmakery in Edinburgh, Scotland. (The Kiltmakery & ScotClans)
Kilt making is now classified as an endangered craft. Makers of handsewn kilts are particularly hard hit due to companies producing machine-made kilts. But handsewn kilt makers have come to work together at The Kiltmakery & ScotClans in Edinburgh, Scotland, sometimes for overseas clients. “We’ve got a very large order from Florida for a huge band, and they’re really interested in explaining the story [of how the kilts were made] to their students and the kids in the band. So we’re able to actually make 200 handsewn kilts,” kilt maker Amanda Moffet said.
To find out more about The Heritage Crafts Association and the “HCA Red List of Endangered Crafts,” visit RedList.HeritageCrafts.org.uk
Kilt makers work together at The Kiltmakery in Edinburgh, Scotland. (The Kiltmakery & ScotClans)~Film Review of ‘A Quiet Place Part II’: Lightning Strikes Twice for Filmmaker John Krasinski
PG-13 | 1h 37min | Action, Drama, Sci-Fi, Horror, Thriller | 28 May 2021 (USA)
When released in April of 2018, “A Quiet Place” came with no high commercial or critical expectations. The studio (Paramount) was reasonably sure it could recoup the modest $20 million budget, yet didn’t screen it for the press until the Wednesday prior to opening day—a time too late for many daily newspapers to cover it.
What Paramount hadn’t counted on was the almost universal critical acclaim (96 percent) and the taking in of over $50 million at the box office on the first weekend (and an eventual worldwide total of nearly $341 million). It was clear this movie carried with it appeal beyond the usual horror demographic, mostly because it’s not really a horror movie, but more of high-wire, sci-fi thriller. Before the close of the second weekend, Paramount ordered a follow-up.
Originally scheduled for release in March 2020, “A Quiet Place Part II” was— like many films from last year—postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For the throngs of “AQP” fans this was a bit of a bummer, but they’ll be happy to hear the wait was more than worth it. This movie is among the finest sequels ever produced.
Instead of reteaming with co-writers Bryan Woods and Scott Beck from the first installment, returning director John Krasinski is the sole scribe for “Part II” which, for the most part, worked out very well. If there was anything to find fault with here, it would be the redoing of a big plot twist from “AQP” and another open-ended concluding scene. A second sequel is all but a lock, which in all likelihood will be without Krasinski’s participation.
Both a Prequel and a Sequel
Rather than immediately picking up where “AQP” left off, Krasinski ingenuously includes a pre-opening-credits short film-length prequel that addresses the harrowing events that led to what took place throughout the first installment. It is a throttling introductory salvo to a production which ups the emotional ante with each successive scene.
When it becomes clear staying in their home is no longer an option, mother Evelyn (Krasinski’s off-screen wife Emily Blunt), daughter Regan (Millicent Simmons), her younger brother Marcus (Noah Jupe), and an unnamed infant flee. With firearms and electronic equipment in tow, they follow the same sound-reducing, sand-laden paths which eventually lead them to what looks like an old foundry. Before they even reach their destination, Krasinski hints—through a rifle crosshairs perspective—that there might be a new, unseen, far-more direct threat.
The close of the first act finds Krasinski presenting his most interesting narrative gamble. For the duration of “AQP,” the Evelyn character is the principal lead, yet here, in her stead, is Millicent. A deaf performer, Simmons was an ideal choice to play Millicent (as the plot is heavily based on sound or lack thereof) and she was (properly) regulated to a supporting role in the first installment.
In “Part II,” Blunt and Simmons are given different amounts of screen time with the latter becoming the effective overall lead. Assuming chores previously performed by her father Lee (Krasinski) in “AQP,” Millicent instantly becomes the intellectual and emotional core of the story, and the movie is all the better for it.
Deaf performer Millicent Simmons is actually the lead of “A Quiet Place Part II.” (Paramount Pictures)
Without even trying to be politically correct, Krasinski charges a hearing-impaired juvenile female with becoming the lead in a family-centric, action-adventure thriller with scary monsters on the side.
These monsters—who cannot see or smell (or as it turns out, swim)—play a bigger part in “Part II” than they did in “AQP,” and to Krasinski’s immense credit, he resists the urge (and/or commercial demands) by not piling on too much monster inclusion. They serve their purpose without wearing out their welcome while still retaining their considerable menace.
From Thriller to Family-Centric Drama
It might be beyond obvious, but if you haven’t already seen “AQP,” watching “Part II” first will not only leave you confused, but also perhaps angry and frustrated. This is NOT a standalone film (and in Krasinski’s defense, that is neither a good nor a bad thing). Do yourself a huge favor, rent “AQP” on any of the seven on-demand platforms starting at just $2.99.
“Part II” isn’t just another horror-thriller sequel. It’s taking an original concept and expanding on it, rather than just recycling what came before, and it joins an elite club that includes “The Godfather Part II,” “Terminator 2,” “Aliens,” and “Blade Runner 2049.” It’s not lazy, cash-in filmmaking; it extends into the unlikely territory of uplifting, family-based drama.
Lightning rarely strikes twice in the same place physically and even less frequently artistically. In retrospect, after watching both movies, Krasinski was clearly thinking long-term with these two projects. The challenge of presenting two long form stories such as these with so little dialogue was no mean feat. Krasinki was also smart to demure on being directly involved in a third installment. That’s the sign of a true artist.
Director John Krasinski scores another success with one of the best sequels ever produced. (Paramount Pictures)
It will be interesting to see what Krasinski does next. He’s young enough to remain a viable leading man in virtually anything and experienced enough to tackle new genres while acting, writing, and directing. He could become the next Clint Eastwood. Or the next John Carpenter. Or maybe even the next Orson Welles. Or he could just stick with being John Krasinski and hopefully follow his own, distinct path. That would be awesome.
‘A Quiet Place Part II’
Director: John Krasinski
Stars: Emily Blunt, Millicent Simmons, Cillian Murphy, Noah Jupe, Djimon Hounsou
Running Time: 1 hour, 37 minutes
Rating: PG-13
Release Date: May 28
Rating: 4.5 out of 5
Originally from Washington, D.C., Michael Clark has written for over 30 local and national film industry media outlets and is based in the Atlanta Top 10 media marketplace. He co-founded the Atlanta Film Critics Circle in 2017 and is a regular contributor to the Shannon Burke Show on floridamanradio.com. Since 1995, Mr. Clark has written over 4,000 movie reviews and film-related articles.~A Couple’s Guide to Common Money Myths
The wedding was beautiful and fulfilled your fondest dreams. But it’s over, and now it’s time to settle in and enjoy your new life together. Lucky for you, I’m here to warn you about some common money myths that newlyweds have been known to bring with them into their marriages.
Myth: Double the Income, Half the Expenses
This is what I call newlywed fuzzy math: Merging your lives and incomes into one household is the equivalent of getting a raise. Don’t believe that, not for a second.
Counter: Start out living on only one income, and save the rest. This will require going against everything the culture insists you deserve, but it will allow you to move seamlessly into parenthood. When that day comes, you’ll have an impressive savings account and options. And a gallery of envious friends.
Myth: There’s Stuff We Can’t Live Without
No, there isn’t. But it will be easy to convince yourselves that you absolutely must have matching furniture, new cars, and all kinds of gadgets and services to make your lives easier and keep up with your friends.
Counter: Make a pact that you will never go into debt for “stuff.” Period.
Myth: If We Qualify, We Can Afford It
Whether it’s a new credit card or a new nothing-down, interest-only mortgage for a house that, in your hearts, you know you cannot afford, never allow your ability to qualify to be the determining factor. Getting in over your heads in a house or credit card debt is the recipe for a marital disaster.
Counter: Never think of a credit card company, real estate agent, or mortgage broker as a financial adviser. They are salespeople looking to close deals. Get advice from a wise person who will not benefit financially from the decision you make.
Myth: We Have Plenty of Time
It does seem as though you have a lifetime ahead. And that you don’t really need to save money now, while things are tight. But that’s a myth.
The truth is you cannot afford to go one more day without a savings commitment for many reasons. You will want to retire. You do not want to feel forced into debt when something unexpected happens. You do not want to get used to spending all that you have. You want to create a sense of security and peace in your marriage.
Counter: See 10 percent of your net income as a mandatory financial obligation, just like your rent or mortgage payment. Pay it to yourselves, without fail, starting now.
Myth: Some Money Issues are Best Kept Private
Whether it’s student debt or a secret credit card account, keeping money secrets from your beloved is not good for your marriage. You might be able to pull off financial infidelity for a while, but eventually, it will come back to bite you.
Counter: Start out with a commitment to full disclosure and total honesty. That will build something into your marriage that money cannot buy: trust.
Myth: Everything Will Be Fine as Soon as We Make More Money
It does make sense that if you are struggling now, you won’t once you get a big raise or finish school or get your grandmother’s inheritance or win the lottery. The truth is that more money will never be enough until you learn how to manage the money you already have.
Counter: Make the necessary adjustments now to live beneath your means. That will ensure that when more money comes into your lives, you’ll know exactly how to take care of it.
Myth: It’s Too Late
No matter how long you’ve been married or how difficult your situation may appear, it’s not too late. It will take longer and be more challenging, but you can turn your situation around. Two people committed to reaching a single goal create a powerful force.
Counter: Decide right now that you are going to do whatever it takes to debt-proof your marriage!
Mary Hunt is the founder of EverydayCheapskate.com, a frugal living blog and the author of the book “Debt-Proof Living.” Mary invites you to visit her at her website, where this column is archived complete with links and resources for all recommended products and services. Mary invites questions and comments at EverydayCheapskate.com/contact, “Ask Mary.” Tips can be submitted at Tips.EverydayCheapskate.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. Copyright 2021 Creators.com~Mom of Boy With Special Needs Responds to Stranger Telling Her Child, to ‘Just Keep Walking’
After passing a curious child at the supermarket, Melissa Schlemmer, a mom of three, was dismayed to hear the child’s mother subdue her curiosity and interest in learning of Melissa’s 8-year-old son, Christopher, who has special needs and is a wheelchair user.
Melissa’s older son, Alexander, was pushing his brother around the store with gusto, grabbing a pineapple and plums from the produce aisle, while a little girl watched Christopher closely and said: “Mom, that looks like a wheelchair.”
Her mother’s instruction to her daughter of “Shhhh… just keep walking,” left Melissa reeling.
The mom hurried both her kids away, leaving Melissa with the fallout: sadness, indignation, and confusion.
In retrospect, Melissa said she wished she would have said that it’s okay to be curious, it’s great to ask questions, and it’s fine if the little girl talks to Christopher herself. In fact, she’s invited.
“He’s a little boy, just like your little boy,” Melissa explained. “He’s sweet and charming with the most adorable grin. He loves books and swinging at the park.”
Melissa believes that in telling a child to just keep walking, a parent is teaching them to ignore someone with a visible difference. “You taught her not to see my son,” Melissa said.
Melissa from Forest Lake, Minnesota, had a blissfully uneventful second pregnancy but began to worry about baby Christopher—who was born on April 20, 2013—when his eyes crossed sporadically, he appeared weak, and he failed to gain weight.
The little boy, who had “failure to thrive,” was then sent for a sedated MRI. At just a few months old, Christopher was diagnosed with a metabolic disorder, PMM2 Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation.
Christopher’s neurologist urged Melissa not to Google it.
“Like many disorders, the range of severity is vast,” Melissa said. “It was hard for [the neurologist] to predict what his life would be like. She told us to allow him to tell his own story, but we knew the likelihood of a feeding tube, seizures, a wheelchair, more therapies, and many more specialists would be added to his life.”
However, instead of choosing “flight,” Melissa chose to fight hard for her baby boy.
“I wanted to fight for him to be the best he could be, whatever it meant,” Melissa said. “That doesn’t mean I didn’t mourn the loss of the life we planned for him. I did. I cried.”
Upon seeing other children of Christopher’s age achieve their milestones, Melissa would envision her son being able to do all those things, and tear up. The loving mom quit her job to care for her son full time so that she could take him to the many specialists and therapy appointments.
Having a medically fragile child has surely changed Melissa and her family’s perspectives on life completely. While caring for her son is “exhausting and lonely,” Melissa claims she didn’t know gratitude until he came along.
At the age of 8, Christopher cannot speak or walk and uses a wheelchair. He has been fed through a G-J tube for over five years now and has vision and hearing disorders. He has suffered several life-threatening seizures through his short course of life. Yet he’s happy, said Melissa. He uses a bespoke communication device, he’s cheeky, hardworking, and loves to read. He has also begun to explore standing and walking with the help of a frame.
Melissa continues documenting Christopher’s journey on Instagram.
Considering the parents of able-bodied children, Melissa claims to understand their hesitation. “I can empathize with being worried about saying something offensive,” she shared. “There are far too many lists of, ‘Don’t ask this, don’t ask that,’ when it comes to talking to a parent of a child with a disability.”
However, if parents can be brave enough to ask the taboo questions with a genuine desire to learn, Melissa added, then she will extend grace and help educate on how to accept, love, and include disabled people.
“Please, help your kids make sense of it all, because if you don’t, who will?” Melissa implored. “I need them to understand because they’ll be the change makers in this world for my son.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Allan Benton: A Tennessee Country Ham Legend
In a small roadside smokehouse in Madisonville, Tennessee, Allan Benton crafts what top chefs across the U.S. consider the gold standard of country ham and bacon. The potent, provocative smell of hickory smoke draws in any visitor—and anyone who tries the finished product.
Since Benton started the business 47 years ago, Benton’s Smoky Mountain Country Hams has become a Southern legend. His dry-cured and smoked hams and thick-cut bacon, made by hand the way his grandparents did, can be found on the menus of leading chefs throughout the South and beyond, including David Chang and Tom Colicchio in New York and Chris Shepherd in Houston. The business has been featured in foodways exhibits at the Tennessee State Museum in Nashville and the Southern Food and Beverage Museum in New Orleans, and Benton was inducted into the James Beard Foundation’s Who’s Who of Food and Beverage in America in 2015.
But despite all the recognition, Benton still describes himself—in his thick Southern drawl—as “a country hillbilly just trying to make a great quality product.”
Rural Roots and a Family Recipe
Benton was born and raised in rural Scott County, Virginia. His family farmed and ate what they raised, including heritage-breed hogs that were allowed to naturally forage for their food, growing fat on acorns and other nuts in the Southern Appalachian forest. Benton’s grandparents cured country hams in a log smokehouse behind their house.
After earning a master’s in psychology from Middle Tennessee State University, Benton intended to work as a high school counselor. But when he saw the salary range, he decided owning his own business would provide more financial security.
In 1973, he approached Albert H. Hicks, a dairy farmer who had been curing and selling country hams out of a small building since 1947. Hicks, nearing retirement, agreed to lease his space to Benton, who started curing his own hams using the recipe he learned from his grandparents.
Benton researched everything he could about the curing process and running a business, and credits Hicks for being a helpful mentor. In 1978, Benton moved to his current location in Madisonville, off Highway 411 North.
Building a Brand by Word of Mouth
Benton has never advertised, instead relying on word of mouth. But the business was by no means an overnight success.
The first 25 years were a struggle to keep the doors open, Benton said. Customers were used to buying mass-produced pork products, not heritage meats, but Benton stayed true to his mission focusing on quality products and his family recipe.
For years, the business stayed small and local—no e-commerce, not even a credit card machine. Even now, Benton’s still only has around 20 employees.
In 2000, Benton’s son, Darrell, now a physician in Knoxville, built his father a website while he was attending college. “No one will buy my dang products from a computer!” Benton told him. The day after the site launched, Benton’s had seven orders. He was flabbergasted.
Benton’s big break came when John Fleer, then executive chef at Blackberry Farm, a luxury inn nearby in Walland, Tennessee, started placing orders.
“I had been at Blackberry Farm for a short time in 1993 and was searching for locally-crafted food products. Benton’s wasn’t far from Blackberry Farm,” shared Fleer, who now owns Rhubarb restaurant in Asheville, North Carolina. “I called up Allan Benton and asked for samples. He brought them over in an old blue pickup with a cab on the back.”
Benton recalled, “Back when chef Fleer called me up, I had no idea what Blackberry Farm was. I thought it was just a country cafe. Was I ever amazed!”
“The coolest thing was inviting Allan and his wife, Sharon, to Blackberry Farm for the first time for dinner, and having him see us using his product in ways he would not have imagined,” Fleer said. “One dish I remember he really liked [was] our wild sturgeon wrapped in his aged ham and seared.”
As Blackberry Farm’s reputation grew, it developed a cooking program with visiting guest chefs.
“We’d give all the guest chefs a care package of bacon and ham as a thank you gift,” said Fleer. For some of these chefs, it was their first taste of Benton’s products. Before long, they were appearing on menus outside of the South.
Benton’s Signature Style
Benton’s hams and bacon start with pasture-raised, antibiotic-free pork, sourced from family farms in the Midwest. He uses only heritage pork, older breeds like Berkshire, Duroc, and Red Wattle, which have more intramuscular fat, similar to European pigs such as Spain’s renowned black Ibérico.
As Benton puts it, “you have to start with something good to make something good.”
The fresh hams are coated with a simple rub of salt, brown sugar, and red and black pepper—Benton’s family recipe—and a scant amount of sodium nitrite, to comply with federal food safety guidelines. They’re then hung in a temperature-controlled room and left to dry-cure for anywhere from nine to 30 months, releasing moisture, intensifying in flavors, and taking on a rosy hue. To make his bacon, Benton coats slabs of pork belly with a rub of salt, pepper, and brown sugar by hand, then dry-cures them for an average of 30 days.
“Every product we make is like a barrel of whiskey that needs to be aged a certain amount of time,” said Benton.
Finally, the cured pork belly and hams destined to be hickory-smoked are taken to the smokehouse behind the building for the final touch.
Chefs and home cooks alike rave about the results.
“When I first tasted Benton’s bacon, I thought, ‘Wow!’ I’d never had anything like it before,” said Chris Shepherd, chef and owner of Georgia James in Houston, Texas. “It gives a depth of flavor and smokiness that’s unmatched—it’s the smokiest bacon you’ll ever eat.”
“In addition to its nice smoke profile, Benton’s bacon is a little thicker and chewier,” said Chris Spear, chef and owner of Perfect Little Bites in Washington, D.C. As for the country ham? “I’d put Benton’s up there with the finest European charcuterie,” Spear said.
Weathering the Pandemic
Before the pandemic, Benton’s cured between 17,000 and 18,000 hams a year in their 18,000-square-foot building. But with restaurants making up 75 percent of their business, Benton’s main customer base all but disappeared when the COVID-19 pandemic hit. To make matters worse, packinghouses in the Midwest were closed, reducing his source for pork for months.
Since his cured hams take more than a year to produce, Benton had to quickly refocus to selling other meats, such as USDA choice beef tenderloin and steak, which he continues to offer.
“As grocery stores experienced shortages of meat on their shelves, we saw an increase in local foot traffic and e-commerce. We kept our prices low—$4 a pound versus $8 a pound at the grocery stores—to help our customers,” said Benton.
Despite all his success, Benton remains unpretentious, and grateful to be in business after 47 years.
“I owe all of my success to my loyal customers, especially to the chefs who use my products on their menus,” he said.
“He’s a good human,” said Shepherd. “The first time I met him, I was visiting Blackberry Farm Brewery in Tennessee, and Allan just walked in the door. I was starstruck. I told him, ‘I’ve been wanting to meet you!’ And he replied, ‘I’ve been wanting to meet you, too!’”
Benton’s Cooking Tips
How does Allan Benton cook his famous hams at home?
“This East Tennessee hillbilly just likes to slice up a piece of one-year-old ham and cook it in a greased skillet for about 12 seconds on each side, and serve it with biscuits and gravy,” Benton said. “Overcooking the ham can result in a tougher, saltier slice.”
“Our aged hams, more than 14 months old, are best served thinly sliced on a charcuterie plate with bread or crackers.”
As for bacon, Benton prefers to cook it in a 350-degree oven for around 16 minutes. For those who prefer pan-frying, he shared advice from his wife, Sharon: “[She] says you have to play with your bacon, turning until crisp. You can’t just leave it in the pan and walk away. Bacon should not be overcooked. You want it to bend a bit without breaking.”
Benton’s Smoky Mountain Country Hams
2603 Hwy. 411 North, Madisonville, Tenn.
423-442-5003
BentonsCountryHams2.com
Melanie Young writes about wine, food, travel, and health. She is the food editor for Santé Magazine, co-host of the weekly national radio show “The Connected Table LIVE!” and host of “Fearless Fabulous You!” both on iHeart.com (and other podcast platforms). Instagram@theconnectedtable Twitter@connectedtable~Film Review: ‘Without Remorse’: A Serviceable SEAL Actioner
R | 1h 49min | Action, Thriller, War | 30 April 2021 (USA)
Welp, it’s another Navy SEAL movie. “Without Remorse” is a screen adaptation of Tom Clancy’s bestselling 1993 novel, and decorated Navy SEAL Senior Chief John Kelly (Michael B. Jordan of “Creed” fame) is the SEAL in question, who lives with his wife in Washington, D.C.
Michael B. Jordan and Lauren London in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
This is actually an origin story that shows us how John Kelly turns into John Clark, who is one of Clancy’s major characters, and who is portrayed by Willem Dafoe in “Clear and Present Danger” and Liev Schreiber in “The Sum of All Fears.”
Kelly’s about to quit naval special forces and work for a private security firm when a terrible mishap befalls him. The incident will, of course, allow action-movie fans to relish him utilizing all his very dangerous skills. What else would such a movie be about?
The film might have been a good opportunity to make a statement about global politics since it’s directed by Stefano Sollima, who previously directed 2018’s “Sicario: Day of the Soldado” (wherein the drug war on the U.S.-Mexico border escalates due to cartels trafficking terrorists across the U.S. border), and it’s co-written by Taylor Sheridan, who wrote both “Sicario” films. Which makes this the perfect team to tell a dark and dirty geopolitics and conspiracy tale, but “Without Remorse” is not that movie.
Sleeping Giant Woken Up
John’s pregnant wife (Lauren London) and their unborn daughter are killed in their home (John is critically injured), in an ambush that was meant to take John out. Except that he, on this particular night, was sleeping on the couch wearing headphones when the hit went down.
A team of assassins are taking out John’s entire SEAL team because, while in Aleppo, they happened to attack the Russian military (instead of the Syrian), due to being fed deviously altered intel. Why? They got used. And now here come the Russians retaliating against the United States, as was the plan by politicians who use the military as expendable pawns. John, of course, becomes determined to avenge all these deaths.
Following his rehab, and assisted by fellow SEAL Lt. Cmdr. Karen Greer (Jodie Turner-Smith), Kelly tracks down the Russian diplomat responsible for all the mayhem. What Kelly learns could have possible international repercussions, and so Secretary of Defense Thomas Clay (Guy Pearce) wants to head off further mayhem at the pass.
Clay tasks Greer and CIA analyst Robert Ritter (Jamie Bell; Henry Czerny played Ritter in “Clear and Present Danger” as the ultimate weasel) with putting a team of operators together to handle the situation. Clay wants Kelly on the op regardless of Greer’s objection that he’s too emotional; Clay feels Kelly’s revenge motivation will allow him to go beyond the call of duty to get the job done. Unfortunately, it’s pretty simple to figure out who the mysterious string-puller behind the U.S.-Russia discord is.
Jamie Bell (L) and Michael B. Jordan in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
The Setup Works
The family preparation scenes are scant and perfunctory, but the good news is that “Without Remorse” is all about the action, and the action set pieces will hold your attention, as will the charismatic, physical specimen Michael B. Jordan—ditto for Jodie Turner-Smith’s no-nonsense Lt. Cmdr. Greer, who war-fights with the best of them. As far as I know, female Navy lieutenant commanders exist, but there are as of yet no actual female SEALs. But movies make magic, and Turner-Smith sells the heck out of it.
Jodie Turner-Smith and Michael B. Jordan star in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
What else? You get every kind of combat, every which way: guns, knives, grenades, jiu-jitsu rear naked chokes, on sea, earth, air, and land (which is what SEAL stands for). You’ve got your vehicular detonation, vehicular water coffins, Russian fighter jets blowing an American plane out of the sky, and buildings going boom. As the lyric goes, “Let the bodies hit the floor.”
One fun thing I don’t believe I seen before is Kelly’s interrogation technique of putting himself in the exact same deadly situation the bad guys are in: He torches a car and then hops in the back seat, interrogating the bad guy while the vehicle slowly blazes toward a gas-tank explosion. He drives a car off a bridge and then sits unflappably on the bottom of the river, while the car quickly fills with water, interrogating the bad guy. He’s a SEAL. He’s very comfortable in water. Fire too, apparently. Guess that makes him a SEALF.
Merab Ninidze (L) and Michael B. Jordan in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
Although it has a few fun bait-and-switch scenes, it doesn’t, as mentioned, really shed light or offer solutions on global diplomacy or the American military. But then I haven’t read Clancy’s book, and if it’s not in the book, there’s no reason for any such high-minded expectations to be in the movie.
Lastly, it sets up at least one sequel, and if they bring back Jordan, they need to bring back Turner-Smith as well—their chemistry is worth the rental price.
Jodie Turner-Smith and Michael B. Jordan star in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
‘Without Remorse’
Director: Stefano Sollima
Starring: Michael B. Jordan, Jodie Turner-Smith, Jamie Bell, Guy Pearce, Lauren London
Running Time: 1 hour, 49 minutes
Rating: R
Release Date on Amazon Prime Video: April 30
Rating: 3 out of 5 stars
Mark Jackson is the senior film critic for The Epoch Times. Mark has 25 years experience as a professional New York actor, a classical theater training, a BA in philosophy, and recently narrated the Epoch Times audiobook, “How the Specter of Communism is Ruling Our World”: https://www.thespecterofcommunism.com/en/audiobook/
Rotten Tomatoes page: https://www.rottentomatoes.com/critic/mark-jackson/movies~Determined California Deputy Revives 10-Day-Old ‘Lifeless’ Baby Who Choked on Formula
A California sheriff’s deputy ended up saving a 10-day-old baby girl’s life after he responded to a medical emergency at a home in Rancho Cucamonga. The baby had finished drinking formula when she gagged and suddenly stopped breathing.
“We tried to get it out,” Glen Wood, father to twin baby girls Victoria and Abigail, told CBSLA. “We suctioned it out, and still [Victoria] wasn’t breathing properly.”
Panicked, Wood dialed 911 on the evening of April 29, and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s deputy, Joshua Kelly, responded.
“He was the first to arrive at the home and was still unsure of what the actual emergency was,” Rancho Cucamonga Police later described on Facebook. “He hurried inside the home to assess the situation and a young woman, who was a caretaker for the family, handed Deputy Kelly a 10-day-old baby girl.”
Victoria wasn’t breathing and her lips were turning blue. A parent himself, Kelly stepped in but recalls the twins’ father looking at him with uncertainty.
Kelly flipped Victoria over his forearm, face down, and began performing back thrusts. Yet 30 seconds in, she still wasn’t breathing. The deputy then launched into two rounds of infant chest compressions.
“After about a minute and a half, the baby’s arms just dropped and went lifeless,” Kelly said. “I thought for sure … we lost the baby.”
Kelly with the twins’ father, Glen Wood, and the rest of the family. (Courtesy of San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department)
Despite his fears, Kelly didn’t give up and continued with chest compressions. Three minutes in, Victoria spat out the formula and took her first breath. The room then inhaled a collective gasp of relief as Victoria started taking small breaths.
“It’s almost like in that three minutes I made a connection with that baby,” said Kelly. Victoria was taken to hospital and later released with a clean bill of health.
The twins’ doting dad lost his own father before he was born, and has always dreamed of being the father he never had. He decided to share this story after Kelly saved his baby girl, wanting the public to know about the heroic deputy’s deed.
“He really had his heart in it,” Wood praised. “I’m just eternally grateful.”
Protecting baby Victoria was a no-brainer for Kelly, who claimed that some people are privy to the spectrum of tasks that officers perform, and some are not.
“It’s not just arresting people,” he impressed. “There’s a lot more to it.”
Kelly reunited with the grateful family in May to meet Victoria and Abigail under more relaxed circumstances. The family called him their “angel.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Woman Neglected by Mom With Addiction Reunites With Bus Driver Who Saved Her 30 Years Ago
Noticing a 4-year-old on her school bus route living in an unsafe home situation, a New Bedford bus driver stepped in. She may not have known it at the time, but her intervention changed the little girl and her two sisters’ fate for the better.
Thirty years on, Kathy Neves and now-34-year-old Amanda Joseph have reunited.
Joseph was forced to fend for herself from an early age; her mother suffered from addiction and often left her daughters unattended. Neves then became Joseph’s guardian angel.
Amanda Joseph and her son with Kathy Neves. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
“Kathy didn’t know the details, but she would actually come pick me up earlier than the other students before her shift, and she would braid and brush my hair and bring me breakfast,” Joseph said, according to Fun 107 radio. Seeing that nobody was helping the 4-year-old prepare for school, Neves also made sure to buy dresses from the thrift store for her.
One morning, Neves pulled up to Joseph’s home and saw the child waving from a broken window. It was time for an official intervention; Neves called the school.
Joseph and her sister Krystal, who was 1 at the time, were taken into the custody of the department of social services, and the girls spent six years in foster care.
While the two sisters were in foster care, Joseph’s youngest sister Cassandra was born.
Amanda Joseph as a child. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
When Joseph’s mother fell terminally ill, she signed over her parental rights.
The three girls were given a second chance when an adoptive family came forward. At the ages of 10, 6, and 5, the sisters started a brand-new life in a loving home. “[My mother’s] one request was to have all three of us girls get adopted together,” Joseph recalled.
Her adoptive parents had one biological son but little experience caring for traumatized children, said Joseph. Yet, they offered the sisters a beautiful life and the security they needed to flourish.
Joseph grew up and moved forward. She established a home for herself in Somerville with her husband, Dokens, and has a daughter, Evelynn, 8, and a son, Remy, 1. The mother of two also joined a women’s group, “Confidence,” at her local Impact church. However, through all this, she never forgot about Neves.
Amanda Joseph with her sisters, Krystal and Cassandra. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
Upon hearing her story, fellow church group members inspired Joseph to track down the woman who changed her life forever. Joseph found Neves, now a substitute bus driver, on Facebook within hours, where stories flooded in from others who had been helped by the kind driver.
After arranging to meet for breakfast at Percy’s Place in Middleboro, Joseph took along her 1-year-old son. The two women shared an emotional reunion.
“I told her thank you for helping and inspiring me to be kind to others,” Joseph said. “Even though she doesn’t think that what she did was extraordinary, it meant a lot to me.”
Amanda Joseph and her sisters with their adoptive family. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
It meant so much, that Joseph—who now works in a school—is especially attentive to children in need around her, telling WHDH that whenever she meets troubled students, she does her utmost to understand them.
Neves was touched to be remembered after so many years and claims that her intervention was a simple case of stepping up when a child needed help. She and Joseph plan to stay in touch.
“Throughout the years, for whatever reason, some kids just stand out,” Neves reflected. “You see someone who needs something, you go get it for them.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Body Cam Captures Deputy Lifting Overturned Car Single-Handedly, Saving Trapped Woman’s Life
When a Gloucester County Sheriff’s Deputy saw a vehicle spun off the road, he immediately sprang into action. By summoning all his strength to lift a car for a woman with her head trapped beneath the sunroof to crawl free, he saved her life.
Holt was assisting Virginia State Police with a suspected DUI accident on May 7 and was en route to a hospital when he witnessed the car spin. “I was on the scene,” he told 13 News Now. “I observed the vehicle upside down with one of the juvenile occupants outside.”
Deputy Jon Holt from Gloucester County Sheriff’s office. (Courtesy of Gloucester County Sheriff’s Office)
In body cam footage, Holt is seen running to the car following the youth’s cry that his mother was trapped inside. First freeing another smaller child from inside the car, Holt heeded his screams: “He said she can’t breathe … and at that point her head was pinned underneath the vehicle,” Holt recalled.
Then, the deputy’s body camera lens gets obscured, but the audio tells an incredible story. Unassisted, Holt wedged his shoulder into the doorframe of the upturned car, and braced.
“I said, ‘All I have to do is just stand up,’ that’s what all I was telling myself,” he said.
Surprisingly, it worked; Holt managed to create enough clearance for the woman to free herself and start breathing again. She was taken to a hospital for medical assessment.
On May 18, Gloucester County Sheriff’s Office released the body cam evidence of Holt’s “tremendous act” on Facebook, where netizens quickly hailed him a hero.
“Through sheer will and determination due to fearing the female may succumb to her circumstance in front of her panic-stricken child, Deputy J. Holt took quick action and was able to physically lift the vehicle up enough for the driver to maneuver her head out to safety,” they wrote.
The driver was later identified as 50-year-old Channelle Parker, Good Morning America reported. Parker was charged with driving under the influence, a hit-and-run before her own car crash, and holding a cellphone while driving.
Despite all the praise Holt has received from netizens, he maintains he’s just an average cop. However, history may prove otherwise.
In March 2020, the deputy—who has served in Iraq and for the Virginia Army National Guard—pulled two people from a burning building, saving their lives. He has received both local and regional Top Cop Awards from the Greater Hampton Roads Regional Crime Line for his bravery in February 2021.
“It’s what we do, and thinking of doing anything different is, you know, out of the question,” Holt added.
Watch the video:
(Courtesy of Gloucester County Sheriff’s Office)
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Garbage Collector Spots Boy Hiding in Trash Bin, Stops Compactor Just in Time, Saving His Life
A Florida sanitation worker was recently recognized and awarded in Hillsborough County for saving a young boy’s life.
Waldo Fidele, a garbage truck driver working for Waste Connections, received the award on May 12 at the Hillsborough County Sherriff’s Office.
In early February, Fidele saved the life of a child at a residence along Neving Avenue in North Tampa, Fox 13 reported. Elias Quezada, a 7-year-old boy living with his grandmother, was playing hide-and-seek on a Tuesday when the incident occurred.
Sheriff Chad Chronister awarded Waldo Fidele. (Courtesy of Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office)
Elias had hid in a garbage bin outside the house, unaware that a waste collection truck was en route to pick up the trash.
When the truck arrived, the garbage can was mechanically hoisted up and its contents dumped into the back of the truck. It was at this point that the driver noticed the boy through the surveillance camera and acted rapidly to save him.
He hit the emergency button to stop the tuck’s compactor blade from compacting the refuse, thus saving the boy from being seriously wounded or killed.
The driver admitted he was overcome with emotion when he heard Elias screaming in terror.
“I come outside. I see him, he seemed happy!” the driver told NBC. “I said ok, you are okay now.”
Carmen Salazar, the boy’s grandma, heard Elias crying for help and thought he was trapped under the truck, causing her to panic.
Now, she is thankful.
(L-R) Sheriff Chad Chronister, Waldo Fidele, and Elias’s grandma Carmen Salazar. (Courtesy of Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office)
“I was very scared that day, but also I am very grateful,” she told the station. “Mr. Fidele, you save the life of my grandson.”
During the award presentation, Sherriff Chad Chronister praised Fidele for his actions in saving the boy.
“Had it not been for Waldo Fidele’s quick thinking, a young child could have lost his life that day,” Chronister stated.
“It is his heroic actions that prevented a family from experiencing tragedy and allowed a 7-year-old boy to play another day. We are thankful to Mr. Fidele, and this award is a small example of that gratitude.”
In a Facebook post, the Hillsborough County Sherriff’s Office hailed Fidele a hero, and congratulated him on the well-deserved recognition.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Cretan Summer Salad With Fresh Cheese and Traditional Rusks
A Cretan salad is in fact very similar to the well-known Greek salad, but has mizithra—traditional goat cheese–or goat curds instead of feta, as well as broken Cretan barley rusks (paksimadia). Sometimes you may also find capers or caper leaves, purslane, and even a few leaves of basil. For me, this is one of the best salads to have with a meal, especially grilled fish, or even just make a big bowl and eat it with nothing more.
Finding Cretan barley rusks may not be the easiest thing unless you live close to a Greek deli. However, there are many alternatives you can use instead that are readily available on the market. Swedish crispbreads are a good alternative and can be easily found, but thickly sliced sourdough drizzled with olive oil and dried out in a preheated oven at 325 degrees F would be my choice.
Serves 4 to 6 as a sharing plate
3 medium, ripe red tomatoes, cut into bite-sized pieces
1 crisp cucumber, peeled, cut in half lengthways, and then into thin half-moon pieces
1 green pepper, halved and sliced
1 small red onion, cut in half and then into thin wedges
A handful of good-quality olives with pits (we use wrinkly black Greek olives)
1 tablespoon capers
1tablespoon chopped ﬂat-leaf parsley
1 handful of purslane, if available, or arugula leaves, chopped
1 teaspoon dried oregano
4 small Cretan barley rusks (paksimadia) or 2 large ones, broken into bite-sized pieces
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 tablespoons good-quality aged red wine vinegar
5 1/2 ounces Cretan mizithra (traditional goat cheese) or feta, crumbled
Sea salt, to taste
Combine all the salad ingredients in a bowl, apart from the cheese, and mix gently. Let it sit for a few minutes and then add the cheese. Mix once more and serve.
Recipe reprinted with permission from “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea” by Marianna Leivaditaki. Published by Interlink Books.~Fajitas have been all the rage since Tex-Mex cooking burst onto the culinary scene. （Dreamstime/TNS）
Festive Fajitas for a Party
Memorial Day signifies the beginning of summer as well as honoring our soldiers who lost their lives in battle. It’s a time when friends and family often gather together. This year, why not serve these incredibly tasty fajitas? Memorial Day weather can be tricky at best. Just to be on the safe side this year, think about making this Mexican-style dish from the comfort of your kitchen.
Fajitas were all the rage a few decades back, when Tex-Mex cooking burst onto the culinary scene. Fajita comes from a word meaning “belt,” and some say that using skirt steak with its unique string-like texture looks like a belt.
Stir-frying tender beef strips along with colorful vegetables and Mexican spices is a quick technique that produces a pretty fajita filling for warm corn or flour tortillas. Make sure to use a high-sided skillet or wok to help cook the ingredients evenly.
This is a very flexible dish, since you can serve it rolled in flour tortillas for a quick family dinner, or open-face on corn tortillas for a fun Southwestern-style party. For a party, you can easily multiply this recipe and add a pot of black beans and some spicy cooked rice to round out the menu. Small bowls of this colorful salsa make a pretty presentation alongside the fajitas.
To drink? Don’t forget some ice-cold Mexican beer or fruit margaritas.
Beef Fajitas With Avocado-Corn Salsa and Warm Corn Tortillas
Serves 4 to 6
For the Salsa
2 large tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and finely diced
1/2 cup corn kernels (fresh or frozen and defrosted)
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley
1 jalapeño chile, seeded and minced
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium ripe avocado, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch chunks
For the Fajitas
3 tablespoons vegetable or olive oil, divided
1 pound skirt steak or flank steak, cut into 2-inch by 1/2-inch strips
1 medium red onion, thinly sliced
1 medium red pepper, seeded and cut into thin slices
1 medium yellow pepper, seeded and cut into thin slices
1 jalapeño chile, seeded and minced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 medium tomato, peeled and diced
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
For the Garnish
1 cup sour cream
Warm corn or flour tortillas
Cilantro leaves
Prepare the salsa. Combine the tomatoes, corn, cilantro, parsley, jalapeño, lemon juice, salt, and pepper in a medium mixing bowl. Cover and refrigerate for up to 4 hours. Spoon it into a serving bowl. Right before serving, add the avocado and taste for seasoning.
In a large skillet with high sides, or a wok, over medium-high heat add 2 tablespoons of oil, swirling to coat the sides. When the oil is hot, add the beef strips and toss every 15 to 20 seconds for 3 to 4 minutes or until the beef is lightly brown. Remove to a side dish.
Add the remaining oil and the onion and toss for a minute. Add the peppers and jalapeño chile and toss every 15 to 20 seconds for about 4 to 6 minutes or until the onion is nicely softened. Add the garlic and tomatoes and cook another minute. Add the lime juice, cumin, cilantro, and reserved beef strips and bring to a boil for a minute. Add salt and pepper to taste and then transfer to a serving bowl.
Serve immediately with a basket of warm corn or flour tortillas and small bowls of the sour cream, cilantro, and salsa on the side.
Tasty Tip: To save time, pick up a container of fresh pico de gallo salsa and then add corn and avocado to it. Season to taste.
Diane Rossen Worthington is an authority on new American cooking. She is the author of 18 cookbooks, including “Seriously Simple Parties,” and a James Beard Award-winning radio show host. You can contact her at SeriouslySimple.com. Copyright 2021 Diane Rossen Worthington. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~Unreal Photos Show ‘Super Blood Moon’ During Total Lunar Eclipse Across the Pacific
Early Wednesday morning, both sides of the Pacific witnessed an extraordinary celestial sight of notable rarity, when the largest supermoon of 2021 coincided with a total lunar eclipse.
During the stellar spectacle, a deep reddish glow was cast upon the lunar disc due to an atmospheric effect—a phenomenon which gives rise to the moniker: Super Blood Moon.
From Australia and eastern parts of Asia, all the way across the Pacific, to parts of the western Americas, skywatchers took in the cosmic display and captured some remarkable photographs to show for it.
The best seats for viewing were in Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, and on islands throughout the Pacific such as Hawaii—where observers were privy to behold the total eclipse, or “blood moon.”
A Super Blood Moon during an eclipse in Taipei, Taiwan, on May 26, 2021. (Sam Yeh/AFP via Getty Images)
The “Super Blood Moon” in the Philippines on May 26, 2021. (Deng45/CC-BY-SA-4.0)
A total eclipse of the Moon on May 26, 2021 in Auckland, New Zealand. (Phil Walter/Getty Images)
A total eclipse occurs when the Moon passes directly through the Earth’s shadow (within the “umbra” range) and is covered by the shadow completely. When this happens, the Moon takes on a rust-red hue as sunlight, filtered through the Earth’s atmosphere, casts a warm glow upon the satellite’s surface—literally the glow of every sunrise and sunset on Earth contributing to the effect.
At the very middle of the three-hour umbra phase, the total eclipse itself lasted around 16 show-stopping minutes.
Beachgoers in Australia were particularly fortunate to experience clear skies; and photography yielded some stunning shots.
A surfer rides a wave as a Super Blood Moon rises above the horizon at Manly Beach on May 26, 2021, in Sydney, Australia. (Cameron Spencer/Getty Images)
The Moon rises over the Opera House in Sydney on May 26, 2021, ahead of a total lunar eclipse. (Saeed Khan/AFP via Getty Images)
The lunar eclipse begins on May 26, 2021 in Auckland, New Zealand. (Phil Walter/Getty Images)
Observers in some other parts of the world got to watch only the partial eclipse phases, where the Moon is only partly covered by the Earth’s shadow.
Fueling the drama, the Moon appeared slightly larger than is usual, it being at its closest point to the Earth (or perigee) along its elliptical orbit. This phenomenon is what’s called a “supermoon,” which can appear 7 percent larger than a regular full moon—though the casual observer might not even notice.
For those in the United States, the rare event marked the first total lunar eclipse in two years; however, the skies were partially obscured by clouds in areas, limiting visibility.
The Moon over Santa Monica, California, on May 26, 2021, during the “Super Blood Moon” total eclipse. (Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images)
A full moon next to a U.S. flag during a “Super Blood Moon” on May 26, 2021, in Chico, California. (Patrick T. Fallon/AFP via Getty Images)
Observatories in both the United States and Australia hosted webcasts during the Super Blood Moon (also called the Super Flower Moon, after the flowering season in which it occurs).
Stargazers will be able to catch the next supermoon (called the Super Strawberry Moon) on June 24, 2021; while the next partial lunar eclipse will occur on Nov. 19, 2021. The next total lunar eclipse won’t occur until May 16, 2022. Meanwhile, moon watchers will have to wait 12 more years before another blood moon and supermoon coincide.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~A Chef’s Love Letter to Crete
In her debut cookbook, "Aegean," Marianna Leivaditaki shares recipes, stories, and inspiration from her home island
Author and poet Mary Ann Evens, under the pen name George Eliot, once wrote, “We could never have loved the earth so well if we had had no childhood in it.”
For chef and cookbook author Marianna Leivaditaki, the love she developed for the food of her culture as a child set the stage for who she became as an adult.
Ask Leivaditaki about her childhood in Chania on the Greek island of Crete, and she’ll paint a world of edible gardens and olive groves, of homemade cheese and wine, of running around the beach all day and fishing with whole anchovies as bait in the moonlight. It’s a world where family dinners could stretch to include 30 people, and food was never merely a biological need, but also a social one.
This is the world Leivaditaki shares in her debut cookbook, “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea.”
Born in Crete, now head chef of the well-known London restaurant Morito, Leivaditaki referred to the cookbook as above all, a journal. “It’s very personal, because it goes back into my growing up years,” she said.
Alongside recipes for fresh Mediterranean dishes that showcase the natural abundance of her home island, Leivaditaki weaves in the stories and traditions from her childhood that secured her love of good food. As a reader, I felt many times like she was right there in the kitchen with me, showing me how to grill a squid or prepare an octopus (in her childhood, they hung it on a clothesline to dry). I wanted to follow her, from her family taverna to the local market, to her dad’s fishing boat and the sea. Leivaditaki, through words and recipes, introduced me to a land I had never seen.
“It’s a gift, to put your stories on paper,” she said. “My family stories are not necessarily unique from [those of] other children growing up in Crete, but these are the experiences that shaped my career path. To me, they are the most pleasurable feelings—of warmth, love, creation.”
Early Foundations
Leivaditaki’s dad was a fisherman, and her mother ran the family restaurant on the water. From an early age, Leivaditaki and her siblings helped at the restaurant, waiting tables, gutting fish, and peeling vegetables.
Below Leivaditaki’s family flat lived Theia Koula, a family friend who became like an aunt to Leivaditaki. Her home was surrounded by pomegranate trees, olive groves, artichoke plants, beehives, chickens, goats, and rabbits. She and her husband made everything from scratch: cheese, milk, wine.
“She was definitely the one who got me into everything about food,” said Leivaditaki. “Because my parents were really busy, fishing and with the restaurant, I had a lot of time to be downstairs to Theia Koula’s kitchen. I would drink Greek coffee in the morning, with biscuits.”
So many gastronomically interesting things were happening at Theia Koula’s house, and Leivaditaki was brought into it all. After their morning coffee together, they would check on the chickens and take care of other animals on the farm, and harvest vegetables in the field. What stands out the most in Leivaditaki’s memory is the tomatoes.
“Her tomatoes were just insane,” she recalled. “They were the ugliest tomatoes anyone had ever seen—bumpy, misshapen. But you would enter the field and just be hit by [their] sweet smell. She would be really careful which ones to pick—only the ones that were super ripe.”
“The whole square smelled of her tomatoes. I haven’t smelled tomatoes like that in years.”
Then they would go back to the house, sit around Theia Koula’s massive wooden table, and stuff vegetables, make a rabbit stew, or toss together a salad for lunch.
Leivaditaki’s experience with Theia Koula represents so much of what the food culture in Crete is truly about: community.
“Food is not just a biological need,” she said. “This is the time to chat, to spend time with friends and family, to bring up issues—and it all happens around the table. Meal time is all about food—but not as in a human need. It’s about sharing food and spending time together.”
Finding Community Far From Home
As Leivaditaki grew, Crete began to feel small and boring. She needed to get off the island, so she left the beaches of Greece behind for university in Canterbury, England. When she arrived, she was shocked: “first, because I was entirely lonely, and then, because I just couldn’t understand what people ate,” she said.
Her housemates ate a typical college diet of pasta with tomato sauce from a tin. “I didn’t know you could make pasta and put it in a tin, and have it last for two years.”
She noticed that in England, eating together didn’t hold the same weight and importance as it did in Crete. Most of her friends ate alone, in their rooms. Homesick for her culture, Leivaditaki began inviting friends to share meals with her.
She cooked every day, and when she finally moved into her first house after university halls, she created an open door policy, where friends knew they were always welcome for dinner. Slowly, she created a culture amongst her friend group where eating good food together became a part of life. And there was no tinned pasta involved: “England has amazing food; you just have to know where to find it.”
Homecoming
Around this time, Leivaditaki began having doubts about her field of study, forensic psychology. She went traveling to clear her head, touring France and Spain on a bicycle.
While on the road, food, and the cooking of it, became a central theme of her life. At the end of that trip, Leivaditaki looked at the way she’d built her trip around the food. “I thought, this is it. I really need to investigate this more.”
Looking back over her years in England, she realized that cooking food and sharing it with others had become the central theme of her life. Deciding to explore that passion more, she returned to her family restaurant on Crete and took over the kitchen.
In her two years there, Leivaditaki realized how much joy cooking the foods of her childhood provided her. She fell in love with her island again: with its fresh, abundant food from the land and sea. Cooking, not psychology, was what Leivaditaki was made for. Giving people pleasure through food was her life’s passion.
Inspiration From Afar
With this newfound clarity, Leivaditaki returned to England, this time with the intent of working in a restaurant. She wanted to learn how to cook a range of food well. Beginning as a waitress, she worked her way up to become the head chef of Morito, where she continues to honor her heritage and build community through her food. She brings in traditional ingredients and recipes from her upbringing in Crete: grilled rabbit with romesco; cuttlefish, chickpea, and green pepper stew; and organic Cretan sausages.
With “Aegean,” Leivaditaki extends an invitation to readers far from London or Crete. The book is divided into three main sections: sea, land, and mountains, with seasonal recipes such as whole charcoal-grilled fish, summer salad with Cretan goat cheese and barley rusks, and fried rabbit with rosemary and vinegar. A final section, “For After,” includes such treats as semolina cake and loukoumades, traditional Greek doughnuts drenched in honey.
Leivaditaki is passionate about bringing people into the kitchen, encouraging readers to try the recipes for themselves. While some may first appear daunting for home cooks unfamiliar with octopus, mullet, or rabbit, they are so well explained and so deliciously photographed that one could feel brave enough to attempt them. More familiar dishes are in there, too. Reading the recipe for tomato and oregano fritters with whipped feta, I could almost smell Theia Koula’s tomatoes.
“What I’d like this book to be is inspirational,” Leivaditaki said. “You are allowed, as a reader in your own kitchen, to be and to explore.”
RECIPE: Fried Anchovies With Potatoes, Chopped Herbs, and Lemon Mayonnaise
RECIPE: Zucchini and Feta Fritters
RECIPE: Cretan Summer Salad With Fresh Cheese and Traditional Rusks
Rachael Dymski is an author, florist, and mom to two little girls. She is currently writing a novel about the German occupation of the Channel Islands and blogs on her website, RachaelDymski.com~Fried Anchovies With Potatoes, Chopped Herbs, and Lemon Mayonnaise
When the moon is big and bright and my dad goes out fishing for larger fish, he uses whole anchovies as bait. (The size of the moon determines which fish you go for and what time of night you set off.) He travels further to find the big fish in the deeper waters that are less disturbed by the moonlight. He says, “No lights on the boat, Marianna—the darker the better—they won’t know we are here.”
Only the freshest anchovies in the market are purchased for bait and I used to love “stealing” a few handfuls to deep-fry and eat with lots of lemon juice. The herby potato salad and rich mayonnaise just add to the whole experience.
Serves 4 to 6 as a sharing plate
For the Cooked Lemon Mayonnaise
2 whole unwaxed lemons
3/4 cup (5 1/2 ounces) sugar
1 tablespoon sea salt
2 tablespoons mayonnaise
For the Anchovies and Potatoes
18 ounces Cyprus or russet potatoes, peeled and halved
1 small bunch each of parsley, mint, and dill, finely chopped
Extra-virgin olive oil, for deep-frying and drizzling
Juice of 2 lemons
18 ounces fresh anchovies, cleaned and kept whole
Zest of 1 unwaxed lemon
Zest of 1 unwaxed orange
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
All-purpose flour, for dusting
For the mayonnaise, place the lemons in a small pan with the sugar and salt and cover them with water. Cook over medium heat for about 40 minutes or until they are really soft.
Remove the lemons from the pan, reserving the liquid, cut them in half, and discard the seeds. Put the lemons with a touch of the liquid in a food processor and process until very smooth. It should look similar to curd. You won’t need all of this for this dish, but I always make more than I need since it keeps forever in the fridge.
Put the potatoes in a pan of salted water. Cook over medium heat until soft but not falling apart, then drain. When cool enough to handle, cut them into discs and place in a bowl.
Season the herbs with salt and toss them in 2 tablespoons of the olive oil.
Place a pan over high heat and, when it’s hot but not smoking, add the herbs and wilt for a minute or two. Remove from the pan and add to the potatoes. Drizzle with olive oil and the lemon juice, then season with salt and pepper.
Meanwhile, heat a generous 3/4 cup olive oil in a pan. Put the anchovies in a bowl and season generously with salt. Add the lemon and orange zest to the anchovies and dust them in flour. Don’t shake them too much—you want a nice thick coating. When the oil is hot, place the anchovies carefully in the pan and fry until golden. Remove using a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb any excess oil.
Mix the mayonnaise with 1 tablespoon of the cooked lemon purée and serve alongside the fish and potato salad or, if you prefer, you can mix it in the salad and make it a bit richer.
Recipe reprinted with permission from “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea” by Marianna Leivaditaki. Published by Interlink Books.~Uber Passenger Helps Single Mom Driver Clear Debt and Graduate College
An encounter with a generous Uber passenger changed driver Latonya Young’s fate, empowering her to realize her dream of graduating from college.
Picking up passenger Kevin Esch from a soccer game three years ago in May 2018, Young opened up about wanting to return to school. But life was holding her back; a single mom of three with outstanding bills, she couldn’t earmark money for college, reported People.
At the end of their 20-minute ride, Esch made a decision. He gave Young a $150 tip to pay off an electricity bill and told her to chase her dream. The new friends kept in touch.
A few weeks after they first met, Young texted Esch that she was denied re-enrolment owing to an unpaid bill on her college account. On July 2, 2018, Esch paid off Young’s $693 arrears to Georgia State University’s Perimeter College and texted her a photo of the receipt.
“It pushed me to go to school,” the 44-year-old single mom told People. “He just really wanted me to do well. And he was a total stranger.”
Latonya Young (C) with Kevin Esch (R). (Courtesy of Georgia State University)
Esch, 45, told People that he didn’t want Young’s outstanding debt to be her only obstacle. An estate manager by profession, he has since become a friend and mentor to Young, hoping “the ultimate payback” that he could get would be watching her graduate.
And she did exactly that.
Young graduated with an associate degree in December 2019 before battling the 2020 pandemic, homeschooling, and health setbacks to complete a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice from Georgia State’s Andrew Young School of Policy Studies in May 2021. She finished with a 3.5 GPA, reported WSB-TV.
Young, who had a wayward past and trouble with the law, now wants to become a federal probation officer. She has even penned an autobiography, “From Broken to Blessed.”
She told WSB-TV she didn’t think she would have made it if it weren’t for Esch, who attended the graduation ceremony.
“He was a big part of my journey,” she said. “I don’t think I’d be here if I wouldn’t have met him. I wouldn’t have had this happen.”
Since meeting Young, Esch has joined the board of the Jeannette Rankin Women’s Scholarship Fund, providing financial aid to women struggling with college fees. “They cover whatever it is that’s holding people back,” he told People.
Esch and Young’s journey is also reaping rewards closer to home.
Young’s 19-year-old son, Jakobe, is following in his mother’s footsteps by studying business administration at Perimeter College, the same institution that Young attended.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~WWII Vet Who Turned 97 on Verge of Losing His House—so Biker Club Step In on His Birthday
A World War II veteran who turned 97 years old earlier this month received a welcome gift from a local biker club in Maine.
When the Garry Owen Motorcycle Club learned that the town had foreclosed on Army veteran Joey Comeau’s home in Ellsworth, they knew they had to step in.
The biker club quickly mobilized to raise funds for Comeau, who turned 97 on May 13.
They set up a barbecue and held signs on Bangor Road, encouraging motorists to contribute toward paying some of the veteran’s taxes and saving his home.
“We’ll stop traffic, we’ll put boots out there, but we got to get this guy’s taxes paid so he could do what he wants to do in the last part of his life,” said Warren Ard, president of Garry Owen, to ABC.
Within just one hour, they’d raised over $600.
Then, Comeau was thrilled when the bikers all came up on his deck to sing him “Happy Birthday” and hand him the donations. Tears ran down his face, moved that someone would do such a thing for him.
Over $4,400 more has since been raised through a crowdfunding page.
A relative and advocate of Comeau’s says he owes as much as $13,100 to the town, including all fees.
A state homeless veteran coordinator, Jarad Greeley, those who are age 65 and older are legally protected from tax liens and foreclosures.
Greeley adds that Comeau could also apply to the veteran emergency financial assistance fund for support.
According to Comeau’s friends, the veteran served in the Second World War from 1943 to 1945 and fought on the beaches of Normandy, ABC reported.
Nearly a decade ago, the Garry Owen Motorcycle Club pledged to support every military veteran in Maine.
Some members of the Garry Owen club have family members who served their country in the military.
“Our whole club is about veterans, you know veterans supporting veterans,” said Fleming. “My father was a Vietnam veteran so that made me want to begin this journey with these guys because they take care of veterans and my old man always taught me you know you see a vet out there you shake his hand and say thank you.”
Ard added, “This country is the greatest nation in the world.”
As for the fate of Comeau’s home, uncertainty still lingers.
Yet, the long-lived veteran can take heart in knowing—judging from the support shown on his 97th birthday—his local community, plus a handful of bikers, have got his back.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~9-Year-Old Boy Born With 2 Percent of His Brain Undergoes Surgery to Help Him Walk
A 9-year-old boy born with just 2 percent of his brain hopes to learn how to walk after undergoing a five-hour operation to straighten his legs.
Noah Wall from Carlisle in Cumbria, England, developed a rare brain condition in the womb, and his parents Michelle, 49, and Rob, 55, were told by doctors he would likely never talk, walk, or eat on his own.
However, the young boy has been determined to follow his dream of running and eventually scoring a goal at a football stadium. To make his dream a reality, Noah has taken the first steps.
Noah Wall at the hospital. (SWNS)
Brave Noah was diagnosed with spina bifida—a congenital defect of the spine in which part of the spinal cord and its meninges are exposed through a gap in the backbone. This often causes the individual to be paralyzed from the chest down.
Early scans revealed that Noah would likely be missing a quarter of his brain at birth due to a porencephalic cyst in his head, which was destroying his brain.
As the pregnancy progressed, Noah began to develop more complications and doctors believed he may develop Edwards’ syndrome and Patau’s syndrome.
A baby with Edwards’ syndrome has three copies of chromosome number 18 instead of two, and sadly, just 13 in 100 babies born alive with Edwards’ syndrome live past 1 year.
Patau’s syndrome is a serious rare genetic disorder caused by having an additional copy of chromosome 13, and only one in 10 children with the disorder survive past a year.
Tragically, a “do not resuscitate order” was placed on Noah and his parents were asked five times if they wanted to terminate the pregnancy.
The distraught parents had gone through the heartbreaking process of choosing a coffin and were already arranging a funeral for their unborn baby.
Noah Wall was born with just 2 percent of his brain. (SWNS)
Noah has spent his entire life since birth defying the odds after doctors believed he would live in a vegetative state due to his condition. He also had a rare condition called hydrocephalus, which is a life-threatening condition that leads to an accumulation of fluid within the brain.
The 9-year-old, who recently celebrated his birthday, has seen his brain grow to 80 percent, and his proud mom said she was astonished by how smart he was.
On May 19, Noah underwent a five-hour surgery at Royal Victoria Infirmary in England to straighten his legs and insert two plates into either foot.
During the surgery, the courageous boy lost a lot of blood and had to have a transfusion. But despite being afraid of needles, a smiley Noah said he felt good afterward.
“I felt good after the surgery even if it was very sore after. I have a few bruises and I don’t like needles but I feel good now,” Noah said. “I have a blue plaster cast and blue is my favorite color.”
Noah was in good spirits throughout his stay at the hospital and kept the nurses entertained with knock-knock jokes, according to his mother.
Michelle said that the surgery was an important step towards achieving their goal of eventually having Noah run on his very own feet. Following the surgery, he will be undergoing physiotherapy for the foreseeable future, where he will use a stander that will gradually increase in its angle to apply weight on his core.
It is believed to be a slow process, as Noah’s legs would otherwise break under pressure if he were to stand up on his own now.
However, the mother of three said she was amazed by how positive Noah had been through it all.
Michelle said it would make the world of difference if Noah, who is currently wheelchair-bound, could finally speak to people at eye level.
“He’ll be able to see people at eye level for the first time, I think we all take standing for granted. And we shouldn’t,” Michelle said. “And maybe one day he’ll be able to follow his dream to run.”
Michelle believes that everything is possible in life and, especially with Noah, she says everything is achievable as he is so “determined” and “positive.”
“He never says I can’t, he just thinks about what he needs to do and what he needs to keep doing,” Michelle added.
Noah is a proud patron of Variety, which works with disabled, sick, and disadvantaged children, as well as The Music Man Project, which puts disabled children on the United Kingdom’s biggest stages.
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~In the same way that outdoor drying has its limitations, a clothes dryer does as well. It can ruin stuff. (Yuganov Konstantin/Shutterstock)
8 Things That Should Never Go in the Dryer
Clothes pinned to a clothesline flapping in the breeze and drying in the sunshine is a visual that brings me back to my childhood. And oh, that amazing smell of line-dried clean sheets. Know what I mean? Modern-day clothes dryers have almost completely replaced traditional outdoor clotheslines.
A clothes dryer is a convenient appliance that keeps many homeowners in compliance with community regulations that forbid the presence of outdoor clotheslines. However, in the same way that outdoor drying has its limitations (weather, effort), a clothes dryer does as well. It can ruin stuff.
The solution is quite simple. Learn what can and cannot safely be put into your clothes dryer. Then, make sure you keep a good indoor drying rack in a convenient place to ensure easy use.
Tennis Shoes, Sneakers
Most tennis shoes can be washed in a washing machine. But the dryer? Not at all. The heat of the dryer can melt the glue holding the sole in place and distort the canvas.
Bras, Lingerie, Activewear
The spandex and elastic found in bras, lingerie, and activewear are synthetic products meant to stretch and provide shape and comfort. Heat is the enemy of stretchy things.
If you want your bras and other lingerie items to enjoy a long life span, maintaining their original shape and loveliness right to the very end, never put them through the dryer.
Reusable Fabric Bags
Backpacks, lunch bags, fabric tote bags, and reusable grocery bags need to be cleaned frequently—especially if used to carry food items that could leak onto the fabric.
More than likely, your washable bags will do nicely in the washing machine, provided you make sure your cycle settings for water temperature and so forth are compatible with the fabric. However, putting fabric bags through the clothes dryer is just asking for trouble. Plan on them shrinking at the least and falling apart at the most.
Rubber-Backed Mats, Rugs
Have you ever wondered why the rubber backing of your bathmats, placemats, or scatter rugs gets all stiff and crumbly and eventually peels away, leaving quite a mess? The heat of a clothes dryer. From now on, allow rubber-backed mats of all kinds to air-dry.
Swimwear
Swimsuits, swim trunks, and other swimwear should be washed after every use to remove chlorine and/or salt. But the heat of the dryer will soon destroy the spandex and other synthetic properties of great swimwear.
Your family’s swimwear will last seasons longer if you get into the habit of skipping the dryer and allowing these pieces to—you know what’s coming—air-dry!
Silk, Lace, Delicate Fabrics
While silk fabric and garments are hand-washable, silk should never go in a clothes dryer. Silk is very delicate, and the high temperatures of the tumble dryer can shrink or damage silk. The chances are great that it will come out permanently wrinkled.
And lace? Whether a large piece or simply an embellishment, lace can get easily torn because it is so delicate.
Tights, Hosiery
You may assume that you can put tights, pantyhose, and other delicate hosiery into the clothes dryer, provided you place them in a mesh laundry bag first. But don’t believe it.
These items are very delicate, made from synthetic fibers. Heat is the problem. Once dried in this way, you will shorten that item’s useful life. Don’t take a chance. Always air-dry hosiery.
Slippers, Slip-Proof Socks
Most fabric slippers are washable but should not be dried in a clothes dryer.
The heat of a clothes dryer is likely to melt the glue used in the manufacturing process to attach the soles and hold the seams together. The heat of a dryer can also distort the shape, fit, and feel of your favorite slippers. But no worries! Wash and air-dry them instead.
Mary Hunt is the founder of EverydayCheapskate.com, a frugal living blog and the author of the book “Debt-Proof Living.” Mary invites you to visit her at her website, where this column is archived complete with links and resources for all recommended products and services. Mary invites questions and comments at EverydayCheapskate.com/contact, “Ask Mary.” Tips can be submitted at Tips.EverydayCheapskate.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. Copyright 2021 Creators.com~A Bright, Fresh-Tasting, Make-Ahead Dessert for Memorial Day
Key limes are smaller, yellower cousins to the bigger, darker green Persian limes you usually see in the grocery store. They’re more tart, with fragrant, floral juice, and used to be grown widely in the Florida Keys, where cooks invented key lime pie as a way to use the juice.
To make these key lime bars, you don’t actually need key limes. They can be hard to find and are so small that you’d have to squeeze 20 of them to get 1/3 cup of juice! Regular Persian limes work just fine; but whatever you do, don’t use bottled lime juice in this recipe (fresh juice has much better flavor!).
Then there’s toasted coconut. It’s a great addition to baked goods such as cookies or bars, or as a topping for ice cream or oatmeal. It can sometimes burn when you toast it in the oven, so we like to use the microwave, where you can keep a close eye on it as it cooks.
Key Lime Bars
Makes 16 bars
For the Crust
Vegetable oil spray
5 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces (or 3/4 cup store-bought graham cracker crumbs)
1/3 cup (1 2/3 ounces) all-purpose flour
1/4 cup (1 3/4 ounces) sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
For the Filling
1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1/4 cup (2 ounces) cream cheese, softened
1 tablespoon grated lime zest plus 1/2 cup juice (zested and squeezed from 4 limes)
1 large egg yolk
Pinch salt
1/2 cup (1 1/2 ounces) sweetened shredded coconut, toasted, optional
Whipped cream, optional
For the Crust
Adjust the oven rack to the middle position and heat the oven to 325 degrees F. Make an aluminum foil sling for an 8-inch square metal baking pan. Spray foil with vegetable oil spray.
Add cracker pieces, flour, sugar, and 1/8 teaspoon salt to food processor. Pulse until crackers are broken into small pieces, about five 1-second pulses.
Process until crackers are finely ground, about 30 seconds. Add melted butter and pulse until butter is combined with crumbs, about 10 1-second pulses.
Remove the lid and processor blade. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the crumb mixture into a foil-lined baking pan.
Press crumbs into an even layer covering on the bottom of the baking pan, then use the bottom of a dry measuring cup to press crumbs firmly into the pan until very flat.
Place the baking pan in the oven. Bake until the crust begins to brown at the edges, 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack and let the crust cool for at least 15 minutes. (Don’t turn oven off.)
For the Filling
Meanwhile, in large bowl, whisk condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lime zest and juice, egg yolk, and a pinch of salt until well combined and smooth.
Pour the filling evenly over cooled crust. Spread the filling into an even layer to the corners of the pan and smooth the top. Transfer to the oven and bake until the filling is set and no longer jiggles when the pan is shaken gently, 15 to 20 minutes.
Remove from the oven and let the bars cool in the pan and on the wire rack for 2 hours. Cover the baking pan with plastic wrap and refrigerate until the bars are chilled and firm, at least 2 hours or up to two days.
Remove the bars from the refrigerator and remove the plastic. Use foil to lift the bars out of the baking pan and transfer to a cutting board. Cut into squares. Top squares with toasted coconut or whipped cream (if using) and serve.
For 25 years, confident cooks in the know have relied on America’s Test Kitchen for rigorously tested recipes developed by professional test cooks and vetted by 60,000 at-home recipe testers. See more online at AmericasTestKitchen.com/TCA. Copyright 2021 America’s Test Kitchen. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~Enjoying Glacier National Park and the Izaak Walton Inn
Last June, during COVID, our family ignored California restrictions, got on a plane, and flew to Washington and Montana.
We stayed at the Izaak Walton Inn, located at 290 Izaak Walton Inn Road, in Essex, Montana. It lies halfway between the east and west entrances to Glacier National Park. We had a fantastic time, and no one got sick.
A view of the Izaak Walton Inn from the train tracks. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
The inn is a train-buff’s dream. It was originally built in 1939 to house railroad workers and future tourists to Glacier, but a planned southern entrance to the park never materialized.
Today, however, tourists who plan to visit Glacier do stay at the inn. And because it sits right near the railroad tracks, visitors can watch Amtrak’s Empire Builder passenger train come through twice a day as it journeys between Seattle and Chicago. Freight trains occasionally rumble through as well.
There’s nothing better than drinking a beer on the inn’s back deck while watching a train go by. You can also enjoy a great view and watch the trains from the pedestrian bridge above the tracks.
Amtrak’s Empire Builder heading toward Chicago. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
Visitors can stay in the main lodge or in retrofitted train cars located around the property. We stayed upstairs in the inn, in an Empire Builder Family Suite. It had a queen-sized bed and an alcove with comfortable beds for our teens.
We enjoyed the rustic and train-inspired furnishings. I also loved photographing the birds that frequented the tree outside our window.
A cedar waxwing eating a blossom. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
A classic caboose converted into a family-size cabin. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
We ate nearly every meal in the inn’s wonderful Dining Car Restaurant. The meals are locally sourced, varied, and always delicious.
Enjoying the patio of the Dining Car Restaurant. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
The inn’s play structure for the young-at-heart. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
There are great hiking trails near the inn as well. One day, we hiked 2,000 feet straight up to an alpine lake called Marion Lake. They call it a “moderate” 7.5 mile round-trip hike, but the way up was a killer for me. I was so proud when I got to the top.
Best of all, there was a little bit of snow at the top covering the trail and we weren’t sure which way to go till we saw moose tracks pointing the way. Have you ever seen moose tracks in the snow? I hadn’t. I felt like we’d come upon a wonderful secret. I wish I’d taken a photo.
Marion Lake is also popular in winter for snowshoeing and backcountry skiing. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
On the morning of our last day at the inn, my husband and I did an easy hike along the Essex Creek. It was just as beautiful in a different way.
Water falling along the Essex Creek. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
As much as we loved the Izaak Walton Inn, we were there to visit Glacier, so in we went, through the western entrance. The east entrance (controlled by the Blackfeet tribe) was closed due to COVID-19. It should be open now, but if you visit, you’ll want to check the National Park Service website for any restrictions.
Our first day in Glacier, we decided to kayak on Lake McDonald. We split into separate kayaks with me in one, my son in another, and my husband and daughter sharing one. My son took off and went out as far as he could, planning to get back in time to avoid paying extra rental fees (he just made it).
My husband and daughter went out a fair way, and I—knowing my limits—stayed close to shore enjoying the experience of silently floating by a deer or looking up at the sky.
While we were out there, the weather gods honored us with sunshine, rain, and hail! We all paddled back in the rain, me way before the others, and I froze while waiting for my husband to come in with his wallet so I could run into the store and buy warm, dry clothing! But it was all a great experience.
Enjoying the view at Lake McDonald. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
We also hiked to Lake Avalanche, a 6.7 out-and-back trail with a moderate rating. This time the rating was true. And the lake and mountains were absolutely gorgeous. Someone said it looked like “Tolkien Country,” and except for all the people, it really did. Too bad it was so crowded. I recommend getting an early start to avoid the crowds.
Karen Gough plays in a tree on the trail to Lake Avalanche. (Courtesy of Kate Gough)
Glorious Lake Avalanche. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
Speaking of crowds, July and August are the most popular months to go to Glacier, but we loved going in June. It wasn’t crowded, especially with most people staying home due to COVID. The only drawback was that because of snow, the popular Going to the Sun Road was only partially open.
If you want to visit, I recommend making reservations now at the Isaak Walton Inn to reserve your spot. They may be already booked for summer; however, autumn and winter are also wonderful months to visit the inn. They have year-round outdoor activities. There aren’t that many places close to the park, and this inn is the best!
Happy travels!
Father and son returning from a hike. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)~Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)
Behold the Beauty: A Rare 18th-Century Parisian Armchair
A Getty Center exhibition: ‘Silk & Swan Feathers: A Luxurious 18th-Century Armchair’
Even from afar, an astonishing 18th-century Parisian armchair evokes a sense of majesty and comfortable rest. The rare, sumptuous, crimson-colored brocade-silk armchair, with its seat generously stuffed with swan- and goose-down feathers entices one to rest in its luxury. Even the brass upholstery nails are covered in squares of gold leaf.
Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)
The armchair’s shape, with its oval seat and gently receding curve of the chair arms is a specific design called a “bergère.” These chairs were created to comfortably accommodate 18th-century men and women: the men with their knee-length coats and the women with their voluminous dresses.
Amazingly, although the armchair is over 300 years old, it has not been refurbished or reupholstered, making it an important source of information about late 18th-century French seat furniture, curator Charissa Bremer-David said in a press release. Bremer-David is a curator in the department of sculpture and decorative arts at the J. Paul Getty Museum.
Armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum) “Remarkably, this armchair still looks very much as it did when delivered to its first owner in the late 1700s,” she said. The armchair, created by prominent French furniture maker Georges Jacob, is the focus of her recently opened exhibition at the Getty Center, titled “Silk & Swan Feathers: A Luxurious 18th-Century Armchair.”
Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)
In the exhibition, Getty experts reveal more about how the chair was constructed. For instance, joiners used mortise and tenon joints, a traditional technique whereby two pieces of wood are interlocked at right angles. Also on display are 18th-century books that comprehensively illustrate the many aspects of the furniture trade, from upholsterers to joiners.
The exhibition ‘Silk & Swan Feathers: A Luxurious 18th-Century Armchair’ runs until July 31, 2022, at the Getty Center in Los Angeles. To find out more, visit Getty.edu
Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)~Wildlife Photographer Captures a Beautiful Image of an Elephant in Front of a Double Rainbow
This beautifully timed photograph shows the moment an African elephant appears to pose for a photograph in front of a double rainbow.
Jeffrey Wu, a professional wildlife photographer from Toronto, Canada, was filming a documentary on the plains of Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya when storm clouds gathered.
Wu said: “The heavy downpour lasted about one and a half hours, but right after the rain a beautiful double rainbow occurred in the sky.”
After taking a few shots of the lion under the rainbow, as Wu’s team was still filming the pride, his driver, Ole Ronko Jack, managed to spot an elephant wandering all by himself on a hilltop toward the east.
Wu rushed to snap the once-in-a-lifetime image without delay as the elephant raised its trunk into the air.
“I used a 14mm lens to ensure that I captured the whole rainbow framing this elephant,” Wu said, referring to the photo. “You can see the elephant is washed clean and still wet, the reflection of the body gave it a texture like a metal sculpture.”
He explained that the rainy season is common in May for the region of Maasai Mara, and thus spotting a rainbow after the rain is usual.
However, Wu admits that “having such an intensive whole double rainbow,” and spotting a lone elephant on the hilltop with a clean horizon to photograph is a rare opportunity. “It’s just one of my lucky days,” he said.
An African elephant in front of a double rainbow on a hillside in Masai Mara, Kenya. (SWNS)
The 55-year-old photographer spends 8–10 months each year leading photo tours in Africa. According to his website, Wu—a world-renowned photographic competition judge—began taking pictures from the age of 7.
He derived inspiration from his mother, who is a professional portrait photographer herself. Wu, who is also an artist, author, educator, and conservationist, only became a wildlife photographer in 2013.
The talented photographer strongly believes that “life is not about how many breaths you take, but about the moments that take your breath away.”
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~A new color scheme instantly changes the mood of a room. Pale blues, greens, and grays are popular picks for their calming, spa-like qualities. (Artazum/Shutterstock)
7 Ways to Update a Basic Bathroom
Sure, the ever-functional bathroom is sometimes swept aside in favor of decorating more grandiose rooms. But your bathroom doesn’t have to be boring!
It’s the little details that count, so we’ve rounded up seven easy DIY updates for every part of the room, from the walls down to the bottom of your vanity. They’re also inexpensive and quick—you can complete some of these projects in a day. Dust off your tools this weekend and make your bathroom look its best.
Pick Out New Paint
A new color scheme instantly changes the mood of a room. It’s important to use color carefully in a bathroom, since a color choice can easily overwhelm what is often one of the smallest rooms in a house. Pale blues, greens, and grays are popular picks for their calming, spa-like qualities.
Deck the Walls With Art
Just because a bathroom is functional doesn’t mean it can’t have personality. Hang some art prints on your bathroom walls to personalize the space. For a vintage look, decorate with repurposed flea market finds. Wallpaper an accent wall in a fun water-resistant design, or use colorful tiles as decor. For any artwork you hang up in bathrooms, make sure it has some kind of covering to protect from moisture.
Dress up plain mirror panels or opt for different shapes. (Joe Hendrickson/Shutterstock)
Max Out Your Mirror
Say goodbye to plain, store-bought plastic mirror panels. Or rather, dress them up. Paint a mirror frame to match your cabinets for a cohesive look, or swap out a blah square mirror altogether for one with a unique shape. For a funky, casual vibe, you could even hang up an assortment of smaller mirrors.
Switch Out Hardware
An easy way to change your bathroom’s look is to switch out the faucet and cabinet pulls. You can go from rustic to sleek (and vice versa) in a matter of minutes. Hardware installation kits make it easy. If you’re feeling more ambitious, experienced DIYers can also change out the sink to match.
Dress Up Your Doors
Take boring cabinet fronts up a notch by covering the doors with self-adhesive paper. You can cover the entire surface or cut out a pattern, like circles or a chevron print, that allows the base color to peek through. The options for pretty paper are endless, so you can find one that fits your design style.
An easy way to change your bathroom’s look is to switch out the faucet and cabinet pulls. (Matveev Aleksandr/Shutterstock)
Kick Up Your (Furniture) Feet
It’s the little details that make any room look polished and put-together. Make your bathroom vanity stand out by adding furniture feet or a toe kick to the corners.
Get Creative With Cardboard or Other Materials
Cut up large cardboard tubes or PVC pipes and mount them on the wall in a cluster for a stylish storage display. Use them to store toilet paper, rolled-up towels, lotions, and more for a fun DIY project that won’t break the bank.
Better Homes and Gardens is a magazine and website devoted to ideas and improvement projects for your home and garden, plus recipes and entertaining ideas. Online at BHG.com Copyright 2021 Meredith Corporation. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~Setting up a buffet table outside is a wonderful way to spend the afternoon with friends. (Victoria de la Maza)
Easy Entertaining: Grilling in the Garden
For many of us, Memorial Day weekend marks the beginning of summer. What better way to celebrate than by firing up the grill and enjoying a meal outdoors? When I open the lid of the hot grill and the heat hits my face, it’s right at that moment that I know summer is here.
For this glorious afternoon, I’ve created a menu that needs a bit of preparation in the kitchen, but then is finished on the grill in under 15 minutes. While my friends are sipping sangria, I can handle the grilled items—and show off my grilling prowess—and have everything ready to go on the table.
On the Menu
I start with a favorite herbed potato salad, prepared in the morning. The potatoes are tossed with good olive oil, garlic, and masses of fresh herbs while still warm, so they absorb all those wonderful flavors, and then chilled. Served cold or at room temperature, it is a sensational dish, full of aroma and color.
For the main event, I’m arranging a tray of sliders with different toppings and sauces, for everyone to mix and match as they please. Fun, right?
I much prefer sliders to their larger cousins, as I love to try different proteins with different garnishes. For today, I’m making spicy beef patties, to spread with Dijon mustard on Hawaiian rolls, and bites of grilled salmon, nestled in Boston lettuce leaves slathered with a bright caper-mayonnaise sauce. These two-bite mini-burgers pack a huge amount of flavor.
Play with the sauces and garnishes: You can lay out lettuce and tomato slices, avocado, fresh mango, relish, ketchup, mayonnaise, different mustards, and even hot sauces, so your guests can customize their own perfect sliders. This is a great opportunity to try out local specialties—like that spicy pepper jelly that you bought from the market on a whim, and has been sitting in your pantry for the past three months.
It’s also interesting to play around with the bread—try Hawaiian rolls, brioche, English muffins, potato buns, or even ciabatta. For those avoiding gluten, I always set out some Boston lettuce to serve as “buns.”
While the grill is hot, I also throw on a few ears of corn, which go from grill to table in about 10 minutes. To dress it up a bit, I spread the cooked ears with a creamy sauce of Greek yogurt, sour cream, and fresh lime juice, then top them off with crumbly aged cotija cheese, for flavors reminiscent of elotes, Mexican street corn. I make the sauce in the morning, to give the flavors time to develop, and spread it on the corn right after it comes off the grill. Make double, as your friends will inhale it and ask for more.
For dessert, keep it simple and fresh with watermelon and melon balls, dressed with a little sugar to bring out their natural sweet juices.
Setting the Table
Setting up a buffet outside is such a wonderful way to spend the afternoon with friends. I am setting the buffet table with a colorful tablecloth, melamine plates and glasses, large napkins, and wicker trays to carry everything out. I’ll serve all the food on platters, and set out a big pitcher of sangria for sipping.
My small garden in Charleston is easily transformed into a sitting room. I’ll find a shady spot and make sure that there are comfy chairs and chaises to lounge on (bring extra pillows!), side tables or ceramic stools to put down drinks and plates, and large napkins to cover our laps. We’re bringing the inside out, to create a comfortable space to encourage conversation, camaraderie, and laughter.
Without a set table, we’re free to move around and serve ourselves from the buffet. More informal than other meals, this one is all about relaxing outside with friends, enjoying the fresh air, and savoring that first taste of summer.
As of this writing, you can find me sipping sangria and nibbling on grilled corn, while reclining on a chaise surrounded by pillows. Cheers!
RECIPE: Potato Salad With Fresh Herbs
RECIPE: Spicy Beef Sliders
RECIPE: Grilled Salmon Lettuce Sliders With Caper Mayonnaise
RECIPE: Grilled Corn With Cotija Cream
Victoria de la Maza is an award-winning cookbook author, columnist, and international TV host. Passionate about great food, she combines American traditions with her European heritage to create classic-with-a-twist recipes and ideas for stylish entertaining at home.~How to Make 3-ingredient Sabayon
If you’re looking for a new companion for your summer berries, search no further than sabayon.
An Italian import adopted by the French, sabayon is a delicate, frothy custard, made with just three ingredients: egg yolks, sugar, and wine. Rapidly whisked together over a bain-marie, the mixture transforms into an airy sauce. Light and subtly sweet, it’s a great dairy-free alternative to whipped cream, perfect for spooning over juicy seasonal fruits.
The original Italian zabaione—sometimes spelled zabaglione—is made with Marsala, a brandy-fortified wine—15 to 20 percent ABV—produced in the city of Marsala in Sicily. Though reports vary, the recipe is said to date back to the 15th century, when it was enjoyed all throughout Northern Italy. The story goes that it was Catherine de’ Medici’s chefs who imported zabaione to the royal court of France, when she married King Henry II and became queen in 1547.
French sabayon traditionally swaps the Marsala for a classic white wine—10 to 15 percent ABV—be it dry, sweet, or even sparkling, like Champagne. It’s thus slightly less boozy, a little airier, and subtler in flavor.
In modern France, sabayon can refer to either a savory or sweet custard. The savory version, made with white wine, egg yolks, lemon juice, and a pinch of salt, is often used as a frothy sauce to accompany delicate scallops or oysters.
This French classic can sound intimidating to make at home—but it shouldn’t be. After all, it’s a one-bowl recipe that only requires three ingredients and 10 minutes of your time. Just be sure to select a proper wine, set up a bain-marie, and get ready for some whisking action.
Choose the Wine
Unlike most savory recipes, in which the type of white wine you choose really matters, a dessert sabayon welcomes any type of white wine. Just know that the sweeter the wine is, the more rich and concentrated flavor the sabayon will produce.
Sweet wines such as riesling, muscat, or an ice wine will make for a richer-tasting sabayon, perfect for topping fresh berries. Dry wines, such sauvignon blanc or muscadet, and sparkling wines—including Champagne—will make for a lighter and less-sweet sabayon, better suited for topping a slice of cake or ice cream in lieu of whipped cream.
Add Gentle Heat
A bain-marie is essentially the French way to describe a double-boiler heating method. This method consists of bringing an inch or two of water to a simmer in a saucepan, and resting a heatproof bowl containing the ingredients to be heated on top of the saucepan without touching the surface of the water. This method applies gentle and constant heat, without burning or boiling any liquids.
In the case of a sabayon, this gentle heat ensures that the sauce warms up and thickens slowly but surely while you whisk it—instead of heating the egg yolks too quickly, which could end in scrambled eggs.
Whisk, Whisk, Whisk
Whisking is pretty much the only instruction here. You can use an electric hand mixer or go the manual route—as long as you’re prepared for a workout.
The white wine and sugar are whisked together first, until the sugar is completely dissolved. Then you’ll add the egg yolks and set your heatproof bowl over the bain-marie. Continue whisking, always making sure the water underneath remains at a simmer and never touches the base of the mixing bowl, and watch as the sauce expands and becomes delightfully foamy.
Once the sabayon has doubled in size and is thick and frothy, it’s ready. If you have a candy thermometer, check that the temperature of the sauce reaches 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
2 Ways to Serve
There are two ways of serving a sabayon: fresh or broiled. For the first, simply spoon the warm sabayon sauce on top of your fresh fruits, and voila!
For the broiled version, make sure you place your fruits into an oven-safe serving vessel first. Then, spoon a few tablespoons of the sabayon on top, followed by a sprinkle of icing sugar. Place the vessel under the broiler or use a kitchen torch until the top is lightly golden and caramelized. The sabayon will puff up slightly with the heat and deflate as it cools.
Strawberries With Sabayon
Sabayon is meant to be served warm, which means you can only make it just before serving. To streamline the process, make sure you have all your ingredients measured out in front of you before you start.
Taking the extra step to macerate the strawberries in sugar beforehand will draw out their juices and tenderize them, as well as make for sweeter bites. The macerated strawberries can be prepared and stored in the fridge a few hours in advance.
Once you get familiar with this basic recipe, get creative with the fruits! Fresh, seasonal berries are perfect, but so are other fleshy fruits such as peaches, apricots, kiwi, mangoes, or papaya. Sabayon is also wonderful dolloped onto a slice of cake or scoop of ice cream, or simply served on its own in a cup, with a ladyfinger or two for dipping.
Serves 6
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and quartered
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar, divided
6 large egg yolks, at room temperature
2/3 cup white wine (dry, sweet, or sparkling)
In a bowl, toss the strawberries with 1 tablespoon of the sugar and chill for at least one hour.
In a large heatproof bowl, whisk together the wine and sugar for about 2 minutes, until the sugar has completely dissolved and no crystals remain.
Whisk together the wine and sugar.
In a saucepan, bring an inch or two of water to a simmer. Rest the bowl snugly on top. The base of the bowl should not be touching the simmering water.
Add the egg yolks to the bowl and whisk until the mixture starts to expand and become frothy. Continue whisking—always making sure the water underneath remains at a simmer and never touches the base of the mixing bowl—until the mixture has doubled in size and is thick enough to easily scoop in big spoonfuls. If you have a candy thermometer, check that the temperature of the sauce has reached 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
Add the egg yolks.
Whisk until the mixture has doubled in size, and is thick enough to easily scoop in big spoonfuls.
Place strawberries into individual serving cups and top each cup with about 2/3 cup of warm sabayon. Enjoy immediately.
Place strawberries into individual serving cups.
Top each cup with warm sabayon.
Audrey Le Goff is a French food writer, photographer, and creator of the food blog Pardon Your French, where she shares recipes and stories from her beloved home country, France. She is the author of the cookbook “Rustic French Cooking Made Easy” (2019). She currently lives in Niagara, Canada. Follow her on Instagram @pardonyourfrench~Spicy Beef Sliders
These two-bite sliders are juicy and flavorful, and definitely pack a punch! Hawaiian rolls are the perfect size; you can cut out the centers if you prefer a thinner bun. I mix ground meat with diced jalapeño peppers, parsley, and cotija cheese, then cook the patties on the grill, alongside the Hawaiian rolls. Spread the hot rolls with mustard, add the patties, and finish with your favorite toppings.
Makes 8 sliders
1 pound ground beef
2 tablespoons diced pickled jalapeños
2 tablespoons parsley, finely chopped
4 tablespoons cotija cheese, crumbled
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
8 Hawaiian rolls
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard
Lettuce leaves
1 Roma tomato, sliced thin
4 slices cheddar cheese, cut in half
In a bowl, gently mix together the beef with the jalapeño, parsley, and cotija cheese, and season with ground pepper.
Form patties the size of the buns you will be using (they will shrink when cooked). Make a small indentation in the center of each one, so they will stay flat while cooking. On a hot grill, cook the patties for 1 to 2 minutes per side, or until done to your liking. Season with salt.
Toast the buns on the grill until golden. Assemble the sliders with the beef patties, lettuce, tomato slices, cheese, and any garnishes and sauces you like.~Annual, Biennial, or Perennial?
Q: Can you help me remember the difference between annuals and perennials? For some reason, I have it in my mind that a perennial is a plant that I have to keep planting and an annual is a one that replaces itself annually. I know that is wrong, but how do I remember it correctly?
A: Have you ever had to make an annual payment for something like your taxes or membership dues in a club? You make the annual payment once each year. You have to plant annual plants once each year, too. A perennial is something that happens over and over again, and perennial garden plants come back each year over and over again. So, what do you think biennial plants are? They are plants that live for two years.
Let’s start at the beginning. True annual plants have short lives. They make colorful displays because they need to produce as many flowers as they can as fast as they can because they are going to die at the end of the summer. A few annuals, such as pansies, do prefer cooler weather and will do better in spring or fall plantings. Annual plants are actually trying to produce as many seeds as possible, so we will sometimes need to remove dying flowers by deadheading to prevent seed production and promote more flowers.
Garden perennials are long-lasting plants that come up each spring from underground storage structures such as bulbs, tubers, and roots. Technically, perennials don’t have to bloom for many years, but the ones we grow in our gardens do bloom each year. They must be carefully placed in the garden because they won’t be going anywhere for a long time. They need good soil conditions before they go in. The better the soil, the better the plant will do. Shrubs and trees are also perennials, but they don’t die back to the ground in the winter.
Biennials live two years. In the first growing season, they produce leaves and roots. In the second year, they produce flowers and seeds. Hollyhocks and some foxgloves are the two most common biennial garden flowers, but there are others. Most biennial vegetables are treated as annuals and grown for leaves and roots, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, and radishes. The biennial herb caraway is grown for the seeds it produces in the second year.
Many biennials and perennials are used as annuals. Some of these perennials are actually trees or shrubs from tropical locations. This is especially true for container plantings. In the summer, just about every plant can grow outdoors. But in the fall of cold climate zones, tropical perennial plants will get too cold to survive unless they are brought indoors.
There are thousands of species of annuals and perennials available to the gardener. There are many North American native prairie, wetland, and woodland plants used in gardens, plus there are more species from across the globe. The middle of Asia, parts of Africa, Australia, Europe, and South America all have regions that have a similar climate to parts of North America. Plant explorers have brought plants from all of those regions to be used in our gardens.
Like I said, perennials need good soil because they are not going to move. Annuals should be moved on a regular basis. At the end of the season, annuals are uprooted and thrown in the compost pile or garbage. However, some leaves, stems, and roots remain in the soil. Decay and disease organisms can build up in the soil by feeding on these leftovers. By planting different kinds of plants from different plant families in the garden, disease organism populations are reduced.
Email questions to Jeff Rugg at info@greenerview.com. To find out more about Jeff Rugg and read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Jeff Rugg. Distributed by Creators Syndicate.~Man Mows Lawns Free of Charge for Elderly and Vets—Then Hundreds Join in ‘50 Yard Challenge’
A Huntsville, Alabama, man started mowing lawns for free for those in need in his locale. But it soon turned into a movement with kids from across the country, and beyond, joining in to give back to their communities—one lawn at a time.
Rodney Smith founded Raising Men Lawn Care Service in 2015 to mow lawns, free of charge, for the elderly, the disabled, single parents, and veterans.
The idea was conceived when he came across an elderly man struggling to mow his lawn one day, and Rodney stopped to help him.
“That night, I just decided I’ll start mowing free lawn for the elderly, disabled, single parents, and veterans,” he told The Epoch Times. “And eventually, that one small act of kindness changed my life forever.
“At first, my goal was to mow 40 lawns by the end of winter, but I mowed 40 lawns so quick that I upped my goal to 100.”
A month and a half later, he hit the 100-lawn mark.
“And that’s when the idea of Raising Men Lawn Care Service came about,” Rodney said.
He decided to enlist 30 to 40 kids from Huntsville for the endeavor. Soon, more children started joining—not only locally but nationally, and even worldwide.
He started the “50 Yard Challenge,” where kids are tasked to mow 50 lawns free of charge for those in their community who are in need. Rodney hopes to teach these kids what it means to give back.
“If they accept this challenge, they make a sign saying they accept the challenge and in return, we send them a white Raising Men, or even a Raising Women, T-shirt along with shades and ear protection,” Rodney explained.
The challenge awards kids incrementally for their efforts—after 10 lawns awarding an orange shirt; at 20, a green one; a blue one at 30; a red shirt at 40; and after completing 50 lawns, the kids are awarded a black shirt, plus something special at completion. “I personally deliver them their brand new mower for completing the challenge,” Rodney said.
The effort has already attracted over 1,500 kids worldwide to take the challenge. So far, over 100 have brought the challenge to completion.
Meanwhile, parents really take pride in the kids making such positive contributions to their community, Rodney said.
The endeavor has also beneficially impacted their own lives.
Even during the pandemic, more children continued to join the challenge, allowing them to get outside in the sun and fresh air for some healthy, productive exercise.
The challenge has helped kids who were once isolated and lonely to connect with others in their community.
“I remember one parent in Michigan.” Rodney said. “She told me her son was isolated and he kept to himself. But when he started taking the 50 Yard Challenge, he started becoming friendly with everyone.”
On a more profound note, Rodney expressed his belief that he’s on a mission from God to continue offering kindness to others.
“God turned something I dislike and turned it into something I love to do,” he said. “And every single day I’m outside mowing free lawns for those in need, and it’s a beautiful thing to see kids wanting to do the same.
“No one’s forcing them, and they’re wanting to get out there and make a difference in their community—one lawn at a time.”
Kids aged 7 to 17 can join Raising Men and take part in the 50 Yard Challenge. If you or your child are interested in taking the challenge, you can sign up at: https://weareraisingmen.com.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Couple Buy ‘Crumbling’ 18th Century Mansion, Save It From Ruin in 3-Year-Transformation
It was a formidable project. An 18th century mansion, vacant for 30 years and falling into disrepair. But Katie and Lester Bayfield had a vision for the future of their investment.
Over the course of three years, the couple pulled out all the stops, transforming the mansion from near-ruin into an antique luxury home, for themselves and their three sons.
Salhouse Hall near Norwich in Norfolk, England, was boarded up when the Bayfields first found it. They purchased the derelict building with 30 acres of land from a local farmer in 2017 and started work the very same year.
“Everything we touched fell apart,” Lester, 55, told The Mirror. “We saved it from ruin. I don’t know how long it would have survived.”
The couple gutted the home from top to bottom, replacing ceilings, walls, and floors with the help of Lester’s employees—the father of three runs Norfolk Barn Specialists Limited. Successfully salvaging the original castellated rooftop on the mansion’s exterior, the reno team also kept many original features inside, including restoring ornate fireplaces to their former glory.
Katie, an interior designer, said that the couple’s friends and family thought they were “crazy” to take on such a huge project. “Everything crumbled,” she recalled. “You had to be careful where you were walking as there were holes in the floor … But we saw the potential in it.”
Acquired by a man named Robert Ward in 1712, the derelict mansion caught the eye of the Bayfields when they were hunting for a new restoration project online. Salhouse Hall wasn’t their first rodeo; they’d previously bought and restored nearby Hautbois Hall, converting the manor into a wedding venue, before moving out to take on a property that would afford more privacy for their children.
At Salhouse, they lived in a converted outbuilding for the majority of the restoration.
As work proceeded, Katie began logging their progress on a dedicated Instagram page. The family declared the mansion finished in January 2021, with Katie posting, “We have loved every minute of saving her and very much love living here.”
Their “little castle” retains its stately aura on the outside while the inside is thoroughly contemporized. The home boasts five bedrooms, each with a bathroom en-suite, and features a movie theater and arcade. The Bayfields believe it’s now worth millions.
Finishing touches include a courtyard with a herd of deer in the property’s substantial grounds, while the outbuildings have been converted into two self-contained luxury holiday cottages.
Despite the tears, clashes of opinion, and vast financial cost involved in such a huge project, Katie nonetheless concludes that it was worth it in the end.
“Keep going and don’t give up,” she posted on Instagram as encouragement to others. “Follow that dream.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Grilled Corn With Cotija Cream
This Mexican street corn-inspired grilled corn recipe is absolutely mandatory to make during the summer; it goes from grill to table in about 10 minutes.
I spread the cooked ears with a creamy sauce made with Greek yogurt, sour cream, and lime juice. You can make the sauce with mayonnaise, but in the heat of the day, I prefer to use Greek yogurt as a safer alternative. Spread it on the corn right after it comes off the grill, then top it off with fresh cilantro and crumbly cotija cheese. I use aged cotija to add more depth of flavor.
Serves 6
2 tablespoons sour cream
2 tablespoons Greek yogurt (or mayonnaise)
1 teaspoon lime juice
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
6 ears corn, husks removed
3 tablespoons crumbled cotija cheese
2 tablespoons cilantro leaves, roughly chopped
In a small bowl, mix together the sour cream, Greek yogurt (or mayonnaise), and lime juice. Season with salt and pepper and taste to adjust seasonings. Chill until ready to use.
On a hot grill, cook the corn, turning about every 2 minutes, until cooked on all sides, about 10 minutes total.
Spread with the cream, top with the cotija cheese, and sprinkle cilantro on top. Serve immediately.~Grilled Salmon Lettuce Sliders With Caper Mayonnaise
Less is more for salmon, as I want the flavor of the fish to come through. For these lettuce-wrapped “sliders,” I grill bite-sized pieces of salmon and serve them in Boston lettuce cups, spread with a creamy, mayo-based sauce, made bright and tangy with lemon and capers. Other garnishes that may work are slices of avocado, mango, or thinly sliced peppers.
Makes 8
2 tablespoon mayonnaise (or Greek yogurt)
2 tablespoon capers
2 tablespoon lemon juice
8 Boston lettuce leaves
8 2-inch pieces salmon
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
In a small bowl, mix together the mayonnaise, capers, and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper and taste to adjust seasonings. Spread the lettuce leaves with the mayonnaise mixture and set aside.
On a hot grill, cook the salmon for 2 minutes per side. Place a piece in each of the prepared lettuce leaves and season with salt and pepper to taste.~Chen Yinghua is unlawfully detained at the Nanjing Detention Center in China in July 2013 ﻿for refusing to give up her faith in Falun Gong. (Courtesy of Chen Yinghua)
‘Communism Has Infiltrated America and the World,’ Warns a Persecuted Chinese Refugee
A Chinese woman who fled overseas in late 2019 has endured a life many in the West would find unfathomable.
Unlawfully incarcerated and tortured in Chinese prisons for her faith, she describes her experience as “hell.” In fact, countless like her have suffered far worse at the hands of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), and Chen Yinghua, 49, having escaped to North America, calls herself one of the lucky ones.
Coming from a totalitarian state where differing views are suppressed or canceled, Chen is noticing similarities emerging in North America. Speaking to The Epoch Times from her new home in Calgary, Canada, Chen said she hopes the world will soon wake up to communism’s true goal: to “rule all humanity and eventually destroy it.”
“I want to share my real-life experience with those who still have illusions about communism due to ignorance; with those who are numb and indifferent to the CCP’s destruction of Hong Kong, the United States, and even the world; and with those foreign agents who, due to their personal vested interests, are willfully lured in by the CCP to be its accomplice in the destruction of human society,” she said.
“I believe this is God’s will, to tell the truth about communism and about those who have been persecuted by it. This is saving humanity.”
Westerners are starting to experience the evilness of the leftist push. The CCP has subtly infiltrated all key areas of American and Canadian societies for decades. If you don’t flatly reject the CCP, people will soon lose their free will. — Chen Yinghua, originally from China
Chen Yinghua, 49, speaks with an Epoch Times reporter in her new home in Calgary, Canada, in May 2021. (Michael Wing/The Epoch Times)
In China, Chen was a peace-loving model citizen until her views diverged from those of the communist regime, which put her on its blacklist as a “state enemy.”
She was a college graduate who later worked for her husband’s electrical repair company, and she and her husband had a son together. At the time, they felt that things such as political suppression and torture were just shadowy rumors unrelated to them. But that changed in the year 2000, when she began practicing Falun Gong.
An ancient spiritual discipline rooted in traditional Chinese culture, incorporating teachings based on the core principles of “truthfulness, compassion, and forbearance,” Falun Gong is a form of qigong that involves five meditative exercises for cultivating body and mind. It’s currently practiced by an estimated 100 million people around the world.
The officially atheist CCP—under which divergent thoughts are regarded as a threat to its iron-fist rule—has been violently persecuting Falun Gong since July 1999, arresting, torturing, and killing untold numbers of adherents.
Chen says her experience of being persecuted for practicing her faith should sound a warning for everyone about what may be about to unfold in the West and particularly in the United States.
“Socialism and communism are a scam,” she said. “Socialist changes could happen at any time, and the kindhearted American and Canadian people will lose their most precious thing—free will.
“What kind of future does socialism bring to a country and its people? China and the Chinese people provide a lesson. The current state of the Chinese people is the future of those who want to take the socialist road. You’ll see that if you take a step back, communism takes a step forward, and sooner or later you have nowhere to go.
“Westerners are starting to experience the evilness of the leftist push. We have experienced this already in China. The CCP has subtly infiltrated all key areas of American and Canadian society for decades.”
A photo of Chen Yinghua during a four-year sentence in the Detention Center of Shijiazhuang prison, in Hebei Province, where she suffered wounds on her face during multiple violent force-feeding sessions. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
Ancient Spirituality Meets Communism
Chen said her mother, Jinling, was the first in her family to practice Falun Gong, starting in 1998, before the persecution. That was also the year Chen’s elder brother emigrated to Canada.
“A month after my mom started practicing, all her illnesses were suddenly cured. She had recovered,” Chen said. “My mom then recommended it to me. I was 27 years old at the time.”
In 1999, Chen’s father-in-law, who was a Party secretary at an oil company, cautioned her before the onset of the persecution. “He told me the spiritual system my mom was practicing would soon be suppressed,” she said.
Shortly thereafter, state media and television began broadcasting propaganda reports during prime time to turn public opinion against Falun Gong. The Chinese mainstream society, brainwashed after generations of suppression, was soon on board with the state-run narrative about the practice.
A file photo from 1998 shows Falun Gong practitioners meditating publicly in Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China, before the CCP launched its brutal campaign to persecute the spiritual group in 1999. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
“The communist regime said civil servants were prohibited from practicing; they would be fired and wouldn’t have a place to earn a living. For those who had been sentenced, they would also be fired from their job,” she said.
“The CCP doesn’t care about your life after that. Some were taken to the brainwashing centers to be ‘transformed.’ If they don’t transform, they have no place to survive.
“Once you’re affected by the CCP’s tyranny, you’ll quickly lose your family, your job, and all your relatives. No matter how high your social class is, you might become a prisoner at any time, and you may even be killed.”
The Crime of Belief
Chen said she was arrested for the first time in 2003 for the “crime” of distributing Falun Gong informational materials, such as CDs and brochures counteracting the CCP’s slanderous propaganda. She said no warrant is needed for police to enter a practitioner’s home, nor are charges needed to detain them—possession of Falun Gong materials is the key “evidence,” which can lead to multi-year prison sentences.
“They have no formalities. The police first arrest a person, then collect the so-called evidence,” she said. “These supposed pieces of evidence are like a rubber band that can expand or shrink to fit what they want to do with you. If they want to expand it, they’ll expand it. If they want to hide it, they’ll hide it. If they want to release it, they’ll release it. When they say it’s a political case, it’s even more serious than petty crimes. If they say there’s nothing wrong, then everything’s fine.
“Actually, the arrest process is also a looting process. The police usually confiscate money while making an arrest. The higher-ups want evidence, while the ones in the lower ranks want your valuables.”
Chen said her crime was that her thinking differed from the CCP’s. While in a detention center, a policeman told her: “You’re different from the other criminals. They did commit a crime. But for you, it’s just that your thinking was different from ours.”
She was tortured in prison before being released. Her second arrest was in 2013.
“The police put a black sack over my head,” she recalled. “I don’t know if they were worried that I would be recognized or that I would recognize them. When they stuffed me into a vehicle, I shouted.”
She was taken to Nanjing Detention Center, where she was again tormented before being released. Her third arrest, in 2014, led to a four-year prison term at Hebei Women’s Prison No. 13, in Shijiazhuang city, Hebei Province.
“Being imprisoned for four years made me experience darkness like never before, even though I resisted the persecution as much as I could,” she said.
During her multiple arrests, she said, large volumes of blood and DNA samples were taken from her. Such biometric sampling is uniform for Falun Gong and other religious detainees. According to the U.S. State Department’s “China 2020 Human Rights Report,” an NGO noted in a report that this procedure “could indicate evidence of illicit organ trafficking.”
The prisons, detention centers, and labor camps unlawfully holding Falun Gong adherents and other prisoners of faith aim to “reeducate” or “transform” them, with force and coercion, to extract a “guarantee to stop practicing.”
A painting depicts the “tiger bench,” an infamous torture method commonly used to persecute Falun Gong adherents. The torture inflicts severe, prolonged pain that can make a victim lose consciousness. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
During her detention, Chen went on a hunger strike to protest her unlawful arrest. As a result, she was force-fed several times, with each session lasting two to three hours. She was also torturously tied to a “tiger bench” and had tubes rammed through her nose, causing considerable bleeding and vomiting.
Other routine tortures included depriving her of sleep, not allowing her to use the bathroom or wash, coercing criminal inmates to choke her unconscious or beat her head against a wall, and more.
“None of the torture could change me,” she said. “What really destroyed my will was the officials making things difficult for other prisoners who sympathized with me. Someone was reprimanded and punished by many supervising policemen for sending me two lucky clovers to try to comfort me.”
The time finally came when Chen heard beatings from the corridor outside her cell, and under the pleading of other prisoners, she caved and signed a statement saying she would give up her faith—an act she describes as a form of spiritual death.
“At that moment, I really felt that a part of me was dying,” she said. “My mind was very slow to react, and I started to look like a walking corpse. I felt like the current world was a living hell, with its existence rooted in the varying degrees of ignorance of and submission to communism.”
Without her faith, she said, life was “meaningless and worthless.” Moreover, she was forced to endlessly repeat her condemnation of Falun Gong, reasserting her guarantee in daily “reeducation” sessions.
After four years of “hell,” Chen was released.
Freedom at Last
Chen was extremely lucky in that her relatives, including her mother and young son, had made it overseas and reached out to officials in the United States and Canada to bring political pressure to bear on the prison where she was incarcerated.
Such international exposure would embarrass the CCP on the global stage, so it’s likely that prison authorities dared not kill her or harvest her organs, nor harm her too severely, for fear of being held accountable. The vast majority of prisoners of faith, however, lack such international support and suffer horrors beyond imagination.
Chen Yinghua’s mother, Huang Jinling, held a press conference on April 14, 2014, for the first time in front of the Chinese Consulate in Canada in order to rescue her, calling, “Help my daughter.” At that time, Chen had been on a hunger strike for 32 days in prison and was dying. (Wu Weilin/The Epoch Times)
After her release, Chen obtained a visa and traveled to Canada in 2019, where she eventually became a refugee. On the flight, she suddenly experienced what it meant to be truly free.
Upon reuniting with her family in Canada, her son didn’t recognize her, as so many years had passed, and Chen saw that her own mother had aged prematurely.
Chen sent some photos back to practitioners in China, and they replied: “You’re free now. We really envy you.”
Chen Yinghua condemns the CCP’s persecution of Falun Gong in front of the Chinese Consulate in Calgary, Canada, on July 17, 2020. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
The persecution is vast in scale, and Chen’s account exposes but a fraction of it. The persecution at large remains obscured by CCP censorship and those willing to toe the party line.
Warning the world from her home in Calgary, Chen said: “Living in Canada, you can feel that this is a place for humans to live in. In China, it’s not a place for humans to live in. That place is hell. There are people in that place too, but they don’t dare to say they’re humans because there are ‘beasts’ waiting on the sides. This is how evil it is.
“If people are not able to take action to resist and push back against the CCP, what the Chinese people are facing today will be everyone else’s tomorrow.”
Jocelyn Neo and Arshdeep Sarao contributed to this report.~Taking You There: The Glory of Albert Bierstadt: ‘Among the Sierra Nevada, California’
Have you ever had a painting show up at different times in your life when you needed it most?
At Penn State in 1967, in the auditorium for Professor Jim Lord’s art history survey class, a large screen spanned the width of the stage. He would flash up slides from different artistic eras—some older, then more modern pieces. Some of the abstract art with splotched canvases were forgettable.
One day he put up a painting by Albert Bierstadt. It remained on the screen longer than the others, giving 500 students a chance to drink it in. It was the most lifelike and immediately fulfilling piece of art I had ever seen. After a few more moments, Mr. Lord said that it was quite massive, so its presentation on his big screen did it justice. It made me feel something I had not known was within me. It reached into my soul and took me there, to the heart of the Sierra Nevada mountains in California.
Taking You There
Some 60 years after Lewis and Clark’s expedition reached the Pacific Ocean, Albert Bierstadt found himself among those wild western mountains and he was enthralled. He created a scene to capture the loveliest aspects of nature. He found just the right pieces, and with his extraordinary imagination, fit them together perfectly. The greatest impact is on the fortunate who stand right before it. With his detailed brushstrokes, he gave life to every facet of the painting.
The massive canvas could have been divided into separate, smaller paintings, each with its own story. Yet these images blend together and are overpowering: white-capped mountain peaks, descending snowfields, swirling clouds, craggy cliffs with cascading waterfalls, mist moving over a high mountain lake, droplets sprinkling down giving a glimmer to its surface, the coolness of the wind winding through the valley floor, and then a dozen ducks and deer posed serenely at the water’s edge, sheltered by centuries-old trees.
The eyes cannot move fast enough, or slowly enough, to take in the majestic slopes and scintillating sky in a single viewing. The lake’s reflection only enhances the splendor from above. Your head swivels left and right. You stand farther back and then move up close to where you can breathe in the forest air, hear its sounds, and revel in this place, declaring the timelessness and the glory and grandeur of nature.
Following the Painting
From a working-class neighborhood in Philadelphia, I had never been west of the Mississippi, and hardly west of the Susquehanna. I added a line to my life’s to-do list. Someday, I would walk the path to that lake and look up at those mountains.
In 1971, I was in training in the FBI before there was an FBI Academy at Quantico, Virginia. Classes were held in the Old Post Office in Washington, D.C. Arduous studies and masses of new information kept 30 fit and healthy trainees under the gun. On lunch breaks, my classmates strolled the nearby streets of the nation’s capital, but I had something else in mind.
The painting I so wanted to see was at the Smithsonian’s Portrait Gallery several blocks away. On our second day of classes, I found my feet beating a path to that building. I took the broad marble steps two at a time to an alcove, where on the right, were the Sierra Nevadas in all their glory.
If you have a painting that curators know is worth more than a few moments of your time, they place a bench nearby for you to sit and ponder. Over several weeks, I nearly carved out a spot there.
Midway through the last month of training, we received orders for our first office assignments. I was gleeful when mine was Los Angeles. In a month I was there, and for all of 1972, fighting crime, working undercover as a Black Panther, helping solve the second airplane hijacking—learning the trade I would ply for nearly three decades.
A good friend from my days at Villanova Law coincidentally moved to the same city. In the summer, we took a week off and drove north—the destination, his cousins in Seattle. But we would pass close enough to the Sierra Nevadas to veer off to the east. In my brand-new Datsun 240 Z, I felt I was driving to hallowed ground.
For most fine landscape artists, there is no single place to stand and paint. Rather, they will pick the best location they can find, with towering peaks, high waterfalls, lakes, denizens of the forest in tranquil terrain, and synthesize it all into a memorable image.
Steering on serpentine roads with views to valleys and vistas at higher elevations gave all the perspective needed for a beating heart to revel in. I could imagine Bierstadt standing before a glistening lake composing his magnum opus. The aromas of the forest, chirping birds, water lapping at the shoreline, a gentle breeze through the trees—and all of it melodic, like notes of music. Later, the artist would play them out as he orchestrated his visual symphony in a studio far away. He captured the power of the panorama, the nuances of nature, and the wonders of the wilderness.
The Painting Helps the FBI
From the mid-1970s through the 1980s, I was assigned to the Washington Field Office as a Cold Warrior with foreign counterintelligence expertise. On a special squad with the goal of recruiting Soviet intelligence officers, my undercover role required me to meet a second secretary attaché from the Soviet Embassy. This was his own undercover position, because he was actually a captain in the KGB.
A complex scam put me in his path so he would report that it was he who had found me, as opposed to his being the target of the FBI. For months I met with my new friend, Vladimir, every other Tuesday for drinks after work at Chadwicks in Old Towne Alexandria, Virginia. Gaining personal stories for personality analysis was the focus for profiling our subjects. I had formulated three questions to assess our targets: What makes him laugh? What makes him cry? And does he love his wife? The answers were crucial, and the last one was the most difficult to learn. If a Russian chose to defect, would he bring his loving wife with him to start a new life, or would defection be his excuse to leave her behind?
After a few months, it was time for me to revisit Mr. Bierstadt’s greatest achievement. But, oh no, the painting was gone! In my place of rejuvenation from grueling hours and job pressure was an empty alcove. A sign said it was on loan to another museum.
It was in Paris for three months as part of an exhibition, “A New World: Masterpieces of American Painting, 1760–1910.” But it was coming back to Washington and to the Corcoran Gallery of Art, right across from the White House.
I consulted my squadmates about my plan to invite Vlad and his wife, Galena, to the exhibition with my wife and me. We could have dinner and make an evening of it.
Naysayers around the conference table asked what could be gained. Wasn’t only Vlad the target? Who cared about his wife? Besides, they said, he would turn down the invitation. “Russians don’t do American art,” and I was “barking up the wrong tree.” My view was different.
I went to the exhibition the day it opened and learned about the pieces on display. I bought the large coffee-table book with all the color images. Studying it was my homework so I could be a docent for my Russian couple. While much of the art had been ribboned off to keep the patrons back, “Among the Sierra Nevada, California” not only had no ribbon but there was also a two-step stool right in front so visitors could get up close.
For Tuesday’s after-work drinks, I brought my highest level of enthusiasm and invited Vlad and his wife to the exhibition. I said the Soviets see too little of America with their restrictions on travel. Besides, I wanted our wives to meet.
What could he say? We set it up for the next Tuesday.
We started with dinner at Chadwicks, and then drove across the 14th Street Bridge to the Corcoran. Evenings brought a higher class of clientele, with suits and ties and well-dressed ladies. We strolled the gallery, and I told Vlad the history of several pieces. He translated for Galena. She had a halting knowledge of English, but was getting along well with my wife.
Then came the turn to the broad gallery with Albert Bierstadt’s masterpiece at the far end. We admired Asher B. Durand’s “Kindred Spirits,” and a cowboy scene by Frederic Remington. Russians, Vlad told me, had heard all about the “Wild West.” Then Galena looked down the long carpet and saw the object of my own affection.
She kept her eyes fixed on it, starting a slow walk toward it from 30 feet away. I tugged on Vlad’s sleeve and my wife followed.
Within a few feet of the painting, she stopped. She looked up to the left, then the right, and then around to all four corners. Her eyes slowly covered the full acreage of the 6-by-10-foot painting, seeming even larger in its ornate frame. Her breath was taken away.
She moved to the stool with no hesitation and took a step up. Her nose was inches from the canvas. She raised a foot to the top of the stool. Her head was abuzz with the enormity of it all.
Careful not to lose her balance on the small perch, Galena did a slow turn so her back was to the painting. She didn’t focus on the long gallery in front of her, although by now 50 people were staring at this short woman, completely captivated by a work of art.
She arched her back and lifted her chin until her eyes were looking above and behind her, upside down, at the towering mountains and radiant sky of the painting. She raised her arms from her sides, palms up, as a pastor leading his flock to sing a hymn on Sunday morning.
Vladimir was as embarrassed as a Russian diplomat could be, but his love for his wife compelled him not to interrupt her moment.
Galena spoke words that others might have thought were too audacious to proclaim out loud. Head back, arms still up, she announced: “I feel it. I want to be there. I am there!”
It was such a shocking display of genuineness. A ripple of light laughter, and then applause ran through the crowd. Everyone’s eyes were on little Galena, a woman in rapture.
The moment was over and I helped her down. A flustered Vlad, his face drained, but resigned to what had happened, said, “You must forgive my wife. Sometimes she talks outside of herself.”
He put his arms around her, as if to shield her, but also to comfort her as they slowly walked away, her eyes still glazed over.
One must understand the Soviet Union, where all large pieces of art were dedicated to “The Worker’s Paradise” and “Heroes of the Revolution,” anything to promote the Communist Party. They would have no grand display of nature to revel in. Plus, their internal controls would never have allowed Galena’s outburst, which Vlad knew well. What he didn’t know was the ultimate assessment of my intelligence target from this outing—he loved his wife dearly. With her feelings on her sleeve, and her husband’s reaction, it was more than I could hope to have learned.
Wayne A. Barnes was an FBI agent for 29 years working counterintelligence. He had many undercover assignments, including as a member of the Black Panthers. His first spy stories were from debriefing Soviet KGB defectors. He now investigates privately in South Florida.~The Last Days of Stonewall Jackson
May is a beautiful month, but in Civil War history, it is also a sad one. The South lost both Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson and General J.E.B. Stuart in May, one year apart (1863 and 1864).
If you venture off I-95 near Fredericksburg, you can visit the site that was, until recently, called the Stonewall Jackson “Shrine.” Due to the changing times, the name has now officially been changed to The Stonewall Jackson Death Site.
The Stonewall Jackson Shrine at the plantation outbuilding where Jackson died, Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park. (NPS)
‘Fairfield’ Frozen in Time
After being wounded by friendly fire while scouting the battlefield near Chancellorsville at night on May 2, 1863, General Jackson was taken to a field hospital where his badly injured left arm was amputated.
Confederate army commander Robert E. Lee selected Guinea Station as the best location for Jackson to be taken following the surgery, most likely because of its proximity to the railroad to Richmond where he could then be transported to a hospital. Lee is famously quoted as saying, “He has lost his left arm; but I have lost my right arm.”
General Jackson ended up in a plantation office building on Thomas C. Chandler’s 740-acre plantation named “Fairfield.” Although offered the use of the Chandler house, Jackson’s doctor and staff officers chose a quiet and private outbuilding as the best place for Jackson to rest.
The Chancellorsville Battlefield, where Jackson was wounded by friendly fire, at the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park. (NPS)
The Chandlers prepared the room using the same bed frame and one of the same blankets that are still on exhibit today. They also added the clock on the mantel with the hope that it would make the room look more homelike and less like an outbuilding.
Despite his condition and the grueling 27-mile ambulance ride, Jackson remembered his manners upon arrival to the property by apologizing to Mr. Chandler for being unable to shake hands with his host.
His Wife Arrives
On May 7, Mrs. Jackson and baby daughter Julia arrived at Guinea Station and found lodging in the Chandler home. Earlier that month, the Jacksons had spent a nine-day reunion together that had been interrupted by the renewal of fighting that called the general away.
Amazingly, that reunion was the first time General Jackson had seen his wife in a year, and the first time he met his five-month-old daughter. Mrs. Jackson wrote of that visit:
“It was raining and he was afraid to take her in his arms with his wet overcoat, but upon arrival at the house, he speedily divested himself of his overcoat, and, taking his baby in his arms, he caressed her with the tenderest affection, and held her long and lovingly. During the whole of this short visit when he was with us, he rarely had her out of his arms, waking her, and amusing her in every way that he could think of—sometimes holding her up before a mirror and saying, admiringly, ‘Now, Miss Jackson, look at yourself.’ Then he would turn to an old lady of the family and say, ‘Isn’t she a little gem?’ When she slept in the day, he would often kneel over her cradle, and gaze upon her little face with the most rapt admiration, and he said he felt almost as if she were an angel in her innocence and purity.”
This second reunion wasn’t nearly as pleasant. Mrs. Jackson spent most of her time at her husband’s bedside in the office, which lifted the spirits of the general. His surgeon Dr. Hunter McGuire recorded the incidents that transpired:
“The General’s joy at the presence of his wife and child was very great, and for him unusually demonstrative. Noticing the sadness of his wife, he said to her tenderly: ‘I know you would gladly give your life for me, but I am perfectly resigned. Do not be sad. I hope I may yet recover. Pray for me, but always remember in your prayers to use the petition, Thy will be done.’”
A portrait of Gen. Jackson, taken on a Spotsylvania County, Va., farm on April 26, 1863, seven days before his mortal wounding at the Battle of Chancellorsville. (Public domain)
While Jackson was making progress in his recovery from his battle wounds, he took a turn for the worse after contracting pneumonia. Despite the efforts of specialists, nothing seemed to help him improve.
In recording the details of Jackson’s wound and treatment, McGuire wrote: “When his child was brought to him to-day he played with it for some time, frequently caressing it and calling it his ‘little comforter.’ At one time he raised his wounded hand above his head and closing his eyes, was for some moments silently engaged in prayer. He said to me: ‘I see from the number of physicians that you think my condition dangerous, but I thank God, if it is His will, that I am ready to go.’”
About daylight on Sunday morning, Mrs. Jackson informed him that his recovery was very doubtful, and that it was better that he should be prepared. Jackson was reportedly silent for a moment, and then said: “It will be infinite gain to be translated to Heaven.”
McGuire then reports in his journal: “His exhaustion increased so rapidly that at 11 o’clock Mrs. Jackson knelt by his bed and told him that before the sun went down he would be with his Savior. He replied: ‘Oh, no; you are frightened, my child; death is not so near; I may yet get well.’”
Those words caused Mrs. Jackson to lean over upon the bed, weeping bitterly, telling him again that the physicians said there was no hope. After pausing, he called for Dr. McGuire, and said, “Doctor, Anna informs me that you have told her that I am to die today; is it so?” After hearing the answer, he turned his eyes toward the ceiling and gazed for a moment or two as if in intense thought, then replied, “Very good, very good, it is all right.” He then tried to comfort his almost-heartbroken wife and told her that he had a great deal to say to her, but he was too weak.
Jackson’s Assistant Adjutant General Sandie Pendleton was so busy with the affairs of the command that he didn’t have time to visit the general until May 10. When he entered the room around 1 o’clock, Jackson asked him who had preached at headquarters. Pendleton replied that the whole army was praying for him, and Jackson responded: “Thank God, they are very kind. It is the Lord’s Day; my wish is fulfilled. I have always desired to die on Sunday.”
The relationship between Pendleton and Jackson had always been a close one, with Jackson loving him like a son. Sandie was so affected by the conversation that he went to the porch and wept. He later told Mrs. Jackson, “God knows I would have died for him.”
The Last Moments
Jackson died later that day, at 3:15 p.m. with Dr. McGuire carefully noting his last words:
“A few moments before he died he cried out in his delirium, ‘Order A.P. Hill to prepare for action! Pass the infantry to the front rapidly! Tell Major Hawks’ — then stopped, leaving the sentence unfinished. Presently a smile of ineffable sweetness spread itself over his pale face, and he said quietly, and with an expression, as if of relief, ‘Let us cross over the river, and rest under the shade of the trees.’”
The Clock
When the building is open to the public, visitors can stand in the room where Jackson died, see his bed, and hear the ticking of the same clock that he heard the last moments of his life. It is the clock that Dr. McGuire used to record the time of his death: 3:15 p.m. on May 10.
The clock in the room where Stonewall Jackson passed away. (NPS)
Stonewall Jackson’s deathbed. (NPS)
The clock, blanket, and bed are said to have been saved thanks to a 12-year-old girl named Lucy Chandler, the daughter of the plantation’s owner. When Jackson passed away, Lucy was distraught. She told her mother that she wanted to trade places with Jackson because only her parents would be upset if she died, but the whole South would be upset if Jackson died.
When she became older, Lucy tucked away the clock, blankets, and some relics and kept a diagram of what the room looked like when Jackson passed away. The room and the building are set up with the help of that diagram.
It’s said that Lucy also placed four Confederate flags on the posts of the bed, and that is how the site became known as a shrine. That part of the historical record is hard to substantiate and is likely lost forever.
The South Weeps
By the time the train carrying General Jackson’s remains entered the outskirts of Richmond, an immense crowd had gathered, the largest in the history of the city. The train slowed to a crawl, then proceeded ahead for two miles to the station, surrounded by thousands of bareheaded men and weeping women. Church bells tolled and guns split the air. All businesses in the city were closed, and black crepe hung everywhere.
The entire South was in mourning.
Jackson was then taken to Lexington, Virginia, where he is buried.
If You Go
The Stonewall Jackson Shrine can be reached from I-95 by taking Exit 118 (Highway 606) and driving east on 606 for about four miles.
During your visit, you may hear a CSX Transportation train rumble past the site on the old Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac line.
As a side note, Jackson’s arm is buried at a nearby plantation and is marked with a headstone.
An Earlier Love Letter to His Wife
One probably doesn’t think of General “Stonewall” Jackson as a hopeless romantic, but here is a letter he wrote to his wife on Sept. 25, 1862.
“Darling, my heart turns to you with a love so great that pain flows in its wake. You cannot understand this, my beautiful, bright-eyed, sunny-hearted princess. Your face is the sweetest face in all the world, mirroring, as it does, all that is pure and unselfish, and I must not cast a shadow over it by the fears that come to me, in spite of myself. No, a soldier should not know fear of any kind. I must fight and plan and hope, and you must pray. Pray for a realization of all our beautiful dreams, sitting beside our own hearthstone in our own home—you and I, you my goddess of devotion, and I your devoted slave. May God in his mercy spare my life and make it worthy of you!
Your soldier”
Jessica James is an award-winning author of historical fiction, women’s fiction, and suspense/thrillers, whose passions include history and travel. When not writing books, she enjoys wandering the backroads of America and blogging about our nation’s almost-forgotten past at PastLaneTravels.com.~Home-Schooled 22-Year-Old Is the Youngest Person in the UK to Get PhD in Astrophysics
A 22-year-old who was home-schooled by his father has become the youngest person in the UK to hold a Ph.D. in astrophysics.
Imran Nasim completed his Ph.D. at the University of Surrey, in Guildford, England, just four years after getting a first-class honors degree in math and physics.
The young doctor has long-term plans to open his own laboratory and go into medicine to help people; more specifically, cancer research.
Nasim, from Burgess Hill, West Sussex, will be pursuing his three-year post-doctorate study on an aggressive type of kidney cancer at Harvard University.
A talented young lad, Nasim was doing A-level work at age 12 and had enrolled for a degree course with an open university at the age of 14. He wanted to pursue a career in medicine earlier but settled for astrophysics when no university would let him use their laboratory until he turned 18.
Nasim’s doctoral research on supermassive black holes has been published in the New York Times alongside findings from NASA scientists.
He said: “So in the universe, we expect there to be massive black holes at the center of galaxies. I was looking at what happens when two galaxies collide and more specifically the gravitational waves that are emitted.
“So the things I study are galactic, which means they are massive and happen over millions of years.
“I see myself turning towards something more tangible, where I can make a difference to people’s lives. Especially considering what has happened over last year with the global pandemic.
“All the skills and techniques I have learned in the field of astrophysics will help me in the future.
“The research position at Harvard is for three years, to study TRCC (Translocation Renal Cell Carcinoma), an aggressive type of kidney cancer.
“Eventually I would like to open my own lab and go into the therapeutic side of things.
“This way I will be able to make a bigger difference in people’s everyday lives.”
Despite the hardcore study and research schedule during the past four years, Nasim balanced his days and weeks to find some time to relax and do other things.
Nasim said: “The hardest thing was producing the research paper, the methodology and all the graphs. I reckon I spent about 20 months producing the research paper working on average 50 to 60 hours a week.
“You know, a Ph.D. is an independent project, so you don’t have a deadline, which means you have to discipline yourself.
“But my undergraduate degree at the Open University has really helped me prepare because a lot of the work is independent.
“In my spare time, I like to play tennis and chess, and pick up the guitar now and then to get my mind off work.”
Growing up, Nasim was home-schooled by his father, Tariq, who has been a tutor for children of all ages for over 30 years.
Nasim said: “My dad teaches a variety of subjects from English, math, sciences, history, and geography, and so [he] decided it would be easier to home-school me. It’s sort of like building a house, because if the foundations are not strong then it collapses.
“I started to take a few undergraduate modules when I was 14 and really enjoyed them, so I contacted the open university and the rest is history.”
But Nasim is not the only one to have received his father’s tuition and achieve academic heights. Both his older brothers and three sisters have degrees under their belts.
His older sister Amreen, 30, has a Ph.D. in neuroscience, and his brother Adam, 26, is in line to get his in mathematics.
“They’re looking forward to seeing what I do next,” Nasim said.
Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Potato Salad With Fresh Herbs
This simple potato salad is made with baby red potatoes, olive oil, garlic, and masses of fresh herbs. Toss it together while the potatoes are warm, so they absorb all those wonderful flavors, but serve at room temperature or chilled. I make it in the morning and take it out of the fridge 20 minutes before serving, so that the oil comes back to room temperature.
I am partial to red baby potatoes, as the combination of the red, white, and green is so cheerful and charming, but fingerling, Yukon gold, and even large Idaho potatoes would work; just dice them to an even size. Other additions could be bacon bits, scallions, and finely diced shallots, to play with colors, textures, and flavors.
Serves 4 to 6
2 cups mixed fresh herbs, such as parsley, dill, and tarragon, stems removed and roughly chopped
1/2 cup olive oil
1 clove garlic, minced
2 pounds baby red potatoes, cut in half or quarters
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
In a small bowl, combine the herbs, olive oil, and garlic. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.
In a large pot of salted boiling water, boil the potatoes until fork-tender, about 20 minutes. Drain them and transfer to a serving bowl. Dress with the reserved sauce and mix well. Taste to adjust seasonings.
Chill until ready to serve.~Butterfly Visits Dad After Daughter’s Death, Inspires Him to Raise Monarchs in Her Memory
A week after his youngest daughter’s funeral, Frank O’Donnell spotted a black and orange monarch butterfly in the backyard of the family home in North Providence, Rhode Island.
This was a moment that spoke to him, and it echoed memory of his daughter, Keri.
“I’ve never seen a butterfly stay still that long,” he recalled.
(Right) Frank O’Donnell’s late daughter Keri; (Left) a monarch butterfly. (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
This encounter led Frank to eventually raise butterflies in his backyard, sending spare milkweed seeds to anyone else compelled to help these endangered insects thrive in the wild.
Frank explained to The Boston Globe that this species of butterfly has become intrinsically connected to his memory of Keri.
“Monarchs, to me, are Keri,” he said. “I love seeing the other butterflies too, but the monarchs are what reminds me of her.”
At age 15, Keri died in a road traffic accident in July 2010. A minivan tire blew out while she was driving to the beach with her sister and three friends, sending the van careening off the highway.
In his grief, that moment when the monarch stayed with him made a deep impression; orange was one of Keri’s favorite colors.
Frank was then inspired by a friend to plant milkweed in his yard—a plant upon which monarchs lay their eggs. The garden concept turned more concrete when a friend gifted the O’Donnells an angel statue. Keri’s Garden memorial took shape.
A butterfly larva and several cocoons in the enclosure Frank built. (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
Eventually moving the garden to the O’Donnells’ new home in Jamestown, Frank installed a sunlit mesh enclosure in his shed to raise several dozen monarch larvae, collected from Keri’s Garden, a friend’s garden, and Monarch Watch, a nonprofit conservation group.
Over the enclosure, he hung a photo of Keri.
On a diet of milkweed stalks, Frank’s larvae grew into caterpillars, then chrysalises. Of these, within a few weeks, 27 became butterflies, and they were released into the yard—from which they would eventually embark on their 3,000-mile migration to the fir forests of central Mexico.
Besides butterflies, Keri’s Garden attracted a host of other creatures, including blue jays, which also sparked memories of Keri in his mind.
Several monarch butterflies after emerging from the larva state. (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
He set up feeders, claiming that the birds and butterflies brought color “when there was no color anywhere else.”
When it came to harvesting the milkweed pods, Frank realized he had seeds to spare. With his daughter’s memory in mind (and the fate of monarchs), he began posting seed packets to anyone who wanted them.
Requests came in from all 50 states.
“I don’t want to speak for someone who is not here, but I think [Keri] would be happy,” Frank told WPRI. “I would be happier if we weren’t doing this, but we are kind of keeping her alive.”
Keri O’Donnell’s garden memorial (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
Frank told The Epoch Times that he has since run out of milkweed seeds, but has pledged to add names to a waiting list for his next batch in the fall.
The journey that began with Keri’s Garden has made him a more spiritual person, Frank reflected.
“I honestly do believe that she’s around,” he told The Boston Globe. “Every once in a while, you’ve got like a little tingle and you know, it’s just like, somebody is paying attention.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~The Simple Joy of Arranging Flowers
Tips for building a beautiful early summer flower arrangement at home
One of the habits I most looked forward to in becoming an adult was buying my own flowers for my dining room table. I remember cashing my first paycheck as a green 22 year old, freshly out of college and starting my first job. I went straight to the grocery store and purchased sparkling water, brie, French bread, and a bouquet of sunflowers.
Every morning that week, those fresh flowers greeted me cheerily as I readied for my day. I loved the way they seemed to smile at me from my thrifted table, shining brightly in the vase I had bought for less than a dollar. Having fresh flowers felt like a mark of domestication: Those blooms turned my apartment into a home.
That was nearly 10 years ago, long before I dreamed of starting Juneberry Floral Co., my local flower business, or arranging flowers for anyone but myself. In those early years of flower buying, when my budget was tight, I learned a lot about improvising with a few bundles of cheaper flowers to create looks that I liked. I knew from memory how much different blooms cost at the market, and loved piecing together different flowers to make something new.
Hydrangeas make a lovely base for a simple summer bouquet. (Nailia Schwarz/Shutterstock)
Most of all though, I learned about the joy and sense of accomplishment that comes from creating simple, at-home floral arrangements to enjoy with a cup of tea at the table.
Early summer is abundant with a variety of flowers and blooms. Markets and home gardens alike blossom with lilies, foxgloves, daisies, roses, and my personal favorite, hydrangeas. Creating a bouquet for your own kitchen table (or a friend’s!) is full of possibilities.
I love for my summer arrangements to reflect the way summer feels: simple, lush, and whimsical. Here are a few flowers that, when brought together, make a gorgeous summer hydrangea bouquet.
Hydrangeas
These summer blooms come in a variety of colors. My husband happened to be at our local plant nursery during a summer sale a few years ago and bought me 10 bushes, so my house is covered in hydrangeas in June and early July. The color of some species of hydrangeas, such as the bigleaf, depends on the pH level of your soil. By adjusting the levels of your soil, you can actually turn your hydrangeas from blue to pink, or vice versa. Blue hydrangeas have to grow in an acidic soil, with a pH of 5.5 or lower; pink flowers should be grown in soil with a pH of 6.0 to 6.2; and purple flowers will bloom if the pH is somewhere in between.
Whether you’ve grown your own hydrangeas or purchased them from a grocery store, cut them at an angle at least two inches from the bottom of a stem before placing them in water. Hydrangea stems can be tough, so using shears or a knife makes the job easiest. Then, snip off all the leaves below the bloom—these leaves rot quickly when placed below the water line.
To make your hydrangeas last, consider purchasing a jar of alum, a pickling spice you can buy from the grocery store. After you cut the stems, dip them quickly into the jar of alum before placing them in your vase. The alum keeps the stem of the hydrangea open, so it will bloom inside for a longer period of time.
(Note: Be cautious if you have pets. Ingesting large amounts of hydrangeas is deemed harmful.)
Lavender makes a whimsical accent for a summer bouquet. (Daria Medvedeva/Shutterstock)
Lavender
This is my absolute favorite early summer bloom to work with. Not only does lavender smell incredible, but some varieties grow tall and give off a whimsical look in a bouquet, especially when mixed with eucalyptus or mint.
My favorite lavender variety to work with is English Royal Purple Lavender. I grow them in my garden, where they have come back year after year, growing about two and a half feet in height. The lavender stops blooming when the weather gets too hot in late July and August, but in June, I love picking a few sprigs and adding them to my hydrangea bouquets. I like to cut the lavender at a different height from the hydrangea, and then spread it throughout the bouquet to give interest and definition.
I really enjoy using lavender as an accent, though it can also be dried in bunches—simply tie a small bunch together with twine at the stem, and hang upside down for a few weeks—and then used throughout the year as decoration. My grandmother always put dried crushed lavender into pouches to freshen her sock drawer.
Eucalyptus compliments nearly any flower it is in an arrangement with, and also looks elegant and sophisticated on its own. (New Africa/Shutterstock)
Greenery
My favorite part about June in Pennsylvania is how lush and green everything is. During this season, I love adding lots of greenery into my arrangements.
One of my favorite greens to use is eucalyptus, which can usually be purchased from any market or grocery store. Eucalyptus comes in several varieties—Silver Dollar, Baby Blue, and Willow are my favorites, but there are others as well—and complements nearly any flower it is in an arrangement with. It also looks elegant and sophisticated on its own, making it a perfect choice for the budget-conscious arranger.
Mint is my other favorite summer green to work with in an at-home bouquet. It’s an unexpected choice, but mint overruns my garden every summer, and I can only drink so much sweet tea, so I’ve put it to other uses in my bouquets. I love the fresh look mint brings to any arrangement, and it smells delightful. The stems aren’t long, but the bright color complements the vivid summer blooms. I use apple mint.
Mint is a fresh, unexpected choice, with a vivid color that complements summer blooms. (Zb89V/Shutterstock)
Arranging Tips
Once all the flowers have been cut and treated, my favorite part is arranging them in a vase. For hydrangeas, I love the simple, classic look of mason jars as a vase, but of course any vase will do. The hydrangeas should sit about 2 inches above the rim of the vase.
If I’m using a wide-rimmed vase, I like to first fill it with water, then create a grid using scotch tape, which will provide more structure for the hydrangeas. I personally prefer an odd number of hydrangeas in my bouquets—three, five, or seven—as it creates a pleasing triangular design.
Have fun arranging the greenery and lavender throughout the vase—hydrangeas are forgiving flowers to work with and almost always look beautiful.
Whether you are picking blooms from your own garden or purchasing from the market this summer, I hope you indulge in the life-giving pleasure of placing a bouquet on your kitchen table.
Rachael Dymski is an author, florist, and mom to two little girls. She is currently writing a novel about the German occupation of the Channel Islands and blogs on her website, RachaelDymski.com~Household Habits to Teach Your Children
While it may seem like a long way off, the little humans you live with and nurture are someday going to fledge the nest and find a nest of their own. When they do, it’d be nice if they knew their way around a washing machine. Here are some habits you can teach your children starting now.
Nighttime Tidy Up
Before everyone heads off to bed, rally the troops to get the dishes into the dishwasher, the couch straightened, the shoes put in the closets, the coats hung up, the counters wiped clean, the garbage taken out, the laundry put away … Basically, put the house back in order and ready for the next day.
Teaching your children to participate in this nightly ritual will instill a valuable habit that they’ll take into adulthood. This simple habit is chock-full of character-building mojo as they sacrifice now for rewards later, diligently work when they don’t feel like it, consider other members of the household, and cooperate with the rest of the family to get the job done.
Waste Management
What day does the garbage get picked up? How about recycling? Who’s in charge of managing the garbage receptacles in your house? If it’s you or your spouse, consider outsourcing the job to a capable child.
Let the child know what night the garbage needs to be taken to the curb each week. Put them in charge of emptying all the trash cans at home, replacing the garbage bags, bringing the cans to the curb, and returning the cans to their place after the garbage truck has come.
Unloading the Dishwasher
Are you the only one in your house who knows where everything goes in the kitchen? If so, that’s a huge red flag that your children over the age of, say, 2 need more responsibility.
Emptying a clean dishwasher and putting away the dishes properly is a great example of the type of effort it takes to keep a household running. Care for each item must be taken, everything must find its way to its proper place, and the job is done when it’s done. As a bonus, the next time someone needs a spoon for her yogurt, she’ll know just where to find it.
Make Your Own Bed
Do you make your kids’ beds every day? If they are old enough to dress themselves, they can make their own bed. (If they’re not, they can help.)
Many adults haven’t embraced the benefits of this habit, but a made bed sets the tone for the day. It’s one of the first things you do, offering you an easy win before the day has hardly begun. A made bed instantly makes the entire room look neater and cleaner. At the end of the day, it’s another reminder that regardless of how it all went, you started off right and can now get into a nice, neat bed.
Dusting
Even a toddler can help get a handle on the dusting around the house. Swiffer cloths or simple rags are perfect to hand off and let the kids do their best with the surfaces of the house. The older the child, the more capable he or she will be, but every little bit helps when it comes to dusting.
Vacuuming
Along those lines, it’s not that hard, even for a preschooler, to learn to use the vacuum. Put your child in charge of vacuuming certain rooms consistently or make running the vacuum a part of the nightly tidy-up if that works better.
Clean the Bathrooms
Ah, the most glamorous of the household chores. One way to encourage your children to not make a total disgrace of the bathroom is to put them in charge of cleaning it each day. Perhaps young children could begin by using natural and safe cleaning fluids like a mixture of vinegar, water, and lemon juice. Kids can manage towels and toiletries, and wipe down counters, sinks, tubs, and yes, toilets.
Do the Laundry
Oh, the laundry. Is there a more relentless household chore? As your kids grow, make sure they put away their own clothes properly each day and are competent in working the washing machine, the dryer, and even the iron.
Take Initiative
Finally, you’ll have hit platinum-level parenting when you see your children begin to take initiative to better some part of the household. Perhaps they simply see a messy surface and take it upon themselves to clean it up. Perhaps they want to plant a garden and take the initiative to make that happen. Perhaps you wake up early one weekend morning and find them cleaning out your garage.
Encourage your children to take ownership and initiative in the care, maintenance, and improvement of the home you share together. Each task, chore, and project will instill in them the skills, standards, and good habits necessary to take good care of their own home someday.~Dear Next Generation: ‘Look for simple interactions where you can create a wonderful memory for someone’
You can make a positive difference to people every day. Look for simple interactions where you can create a wonderful memory for someone.
When a school year or semester is over, take 30 seconds to thank your favorite teacher for their work. When you leave a coffee shop, take 10 seconds to thank a barista who has made a great latte or given excellent service. When someone makes the stupidest driving decision ever, disrupting your drive, smile, shrug your shoulders, and wave (five fingers). If you read something you liked, or learned from, write or email the person who wrote it a thank you.
Over the decades, I’ve seen neighbors working on big yard projects. I will pull over, roll down the window, and say: “Wow, you’re doing a lot of work, but it’s paying off. It really looks fantastic.” The smile you receive will light up your day.
Now that I am older and have a few more pennies, I will give money or gifts to people at times. Last week, I bought a bouquet of flowers for the doctor who gave me my COVID shot, saying thank you. Twice a year, I will stop where someone has been regularly twirling a sign for some business. I will hand them $20, tell them I admire their work habits and know that they will be successful in the years ahead. Then I usually have to lift their jaw off the ground.
Saying to someone something like “Hey, that blue shirt really looks good on you” can really improve someone’s day.
I like to check out items at antique malls. A few years ago, I got my coffee at the same place every day, so I got to know some of the baristas. One of them was an avid horse rider, performing at shows and the like. I saw a small, unique (and cheap) horse item at a store one day, and purchased it for her. When I got my coffee the next day, she wasn’t working, so I asked someone to put it in her box. Sometime in the future, as I pulled up to the drive-up window, she was there, and she just lit up.
“You have no idea how much I appreciated your gift,” she said. “I was having the worst day and came to work with a horrible attitude. When I saw your present, my day turned around 180 degrees.” By that time, I had honestly forgotten that I had given her something.
When you get the mindset of looking for opportunities to make a positive difference in people’s lives, one can find countless opportunities that don’t cost any money, opportunities that will really mean a lot to people.
Tom Tangen, Washington
________________
As a professor, I try to instill in my students the profound impact of work experience in helping to shape work ethic in the classroom and in the field. Often enough, students get too caught up in their grades or grade point averages and fail to realize that experience matters when they apply for jobs after graduation.
Whether it be volunteering or paid service, there is no substitute for “real-world experience” as it serves to instill confidence in the individual and gives them a sense of purpose.
All the best,
Dr. Stephen P. Sowulewski, Virginia
____________________
What advice would you like to give to the younger generations?
We call on all of our readers to share the timeless values that define right and wrong, and pass the torch, if you will, through your wisdom and hard-earned experience. We feel that the passing down of this wisdom has diminished over time, and that only with a strong moral foundation can future generations thrive.
Send your advice, along with your full name, state, and contact information to NextGeneration@epochtimes.com or mail it to: Next Generation, The Epoch Times, 229 W. 28th St., Floor 7, New York, NY 10001~a cancer diagnosis can prompt us to reconsider what is important, like our relationships or art, and focus our attention there. (SeventyFour/Shutterstock)
5 Ways to Manage the Emotional Distress of Cancer
A new book provides useful guidance for how to deal with the emotional and social upheaval of cancer
The National Cancer Institute states that nearly 40 percent of men and women in the United States will receive a cancer diagnosis in their lifetime. Even during the pandemic, cancer was the leading cause of death around the world.
That means many people are dealing with treatment for this worrisome disease—including many of my friends and family members. While new treatments are giving people hope for greater longevity and even full recovery, the social and emotional toll of cancer is still severe. Right when cancer patients need calm clarity and social support for getting through treatment, they can have trouble finding either, compounding their suffering.
While no person’s experience of cancer is exactly the same as another’s, there are reactions that are common to many, write Elizabeth Cohn Stuntz and Marsha Linehan in the new book “Coping with Cancer.” These include difficult feelings such as fear, sadness, anger, and guilt; concerns about how the disease will change one’s life, job, or family relationships; and physical symptoms such as fatigue, pain, and loss of sleep. A patient’s constantly changing experience can breed uncertainty, too, exacerbating many of these reactions.
Drawing upon decades of research, practice with helping patients, and stories from patients (including the authors themselves), the book gives wise guidance on how to reduce stress, make better decisions, protect important relationships, and increase overall well-being while fighting off the disease—all of which can support a better prognosis, too. Based largely on Linehan’s model of dialectical behavior therapy, the authors offer several keys to coping with the physical, emotional, and social strains that cancer patients face. Here are a few of their recommendations.
Be Mindful and Accepting of Your Experience
Though some people believe there’s an ideal way to feel or behave when faced with cancer—upbeat, stoic, or defiant, for example—trying to fit someone’s ideal of how you should react or denying your own feelings is likely to backfire, write the authors. Instead, you should try practicing mindfulness—paying attention to your experience without judgment. This is a more effective way to understand your experience and your needs in any given moment.
“Your emotions, thoughts, and physical sensations offer valuable information. They can tell you what’s wrong and needs to be addressed as well as what’s going right that should be pursued,” write Stuntz and Linehan.
At the same time, being mindful can keep you from wallowing in negative emotions or ruminating about catastrophic possibilities. When you increase awareness of the fleeting nature of your thoughts, emotions, and physical sensations, it can create a little distance from them, opening the door to noticing positive experiences (or less bad experiences) when they occur. Savoring happy moments and small victories can provide a good counterpoint to the hard times, helping you to ride the waves of experience without being overwhelmed.
Finding some distance also allows you to notice patterns, including habits that might not be serving you.
“When you pay careful attention to the interplay between your emotions, your thoughts, and your body, you have the chance to understand your response and see where effective coping may be short-circuited and bring yourself back into balance,” write the authors.
If you accept that all feelings are valid, you can start to recognize where they come from and how to soothe them without repressing them. One method for helping with emotional upset is the practice of self-compassion. Showing yourself kindness and understanding for what you are going through, while recognizing that you are not alone in your suffering, can be a boon to your recovery.
According to the authors, “The goal is to try to coach yourself with the same warm, patient, and sensitive understanding you would give to a cherished loved one who is in a distressing situation.” That means acknowledging whatever experience you are having (for example, I feel pain in my chest right now and it’s worrying me), sending yourself soothing messages (even though this pain is hard, I’ve been through it before, and I know it will pass), and reminding yourself that you are not alone in your suffering (others have been through this too and survived).
People who are more self-compassionate tend to have less depression, anxiety, and fatigue and better quality of life when facing cancer, and generally tend to cope better under stressful conditions. Self-compassion may be particularly beneficial for keeping us as well as possible in trying circumstances.
Check the Facts and Question Distorted Thinking
When we are worried, it can often cause rumination—repetitive thoughts that disturb us and keep us up at night. This can lead to depression and other problems that can interfere with recovery.
As the authors note, people with cancer can succumb to distorted thinking patterns, such as “black-and-white” thinking or thinking in absolutes—for example, only focusing on bad news and ignoring progress, or telling yourself that you’ll never be able to work again and you’ll always be sick. To find a more balanced approach, the authors recommend that you question these types of thoughts by stepping back and examining them and, perhaps, challenging or reframing them. Recognizing the difference between facts and fear-based assumptions can help you interrupt distorted thinking and keep your mind from spinning out of control.
Questioning assumptions can be helpful when talking to doctors, too. For example, some people with cancer are afraid to confront their doctors with fears or doubts about treatment, worried they will offend their doctor and, possibly, lose an important ally in their care. But most doctors are trained to listen and educate patients about their options and expect questions. It’s important to express uncertainty while staying open to emerging information—even difficult facts about your care—to maintain a realistic view of your situation.
Ask for What You Want From Others … in a Kind Way
Support from others is key to healing from cancer. But sometimes cancer patients may feel reluctant to ask for help, especially if they tend to be “go it alone” types. Or they may fear that medical doctors or caretakers will not listen to them, making them feel angry for having reached out.
It’s important to find a balance between requesting help and demanding it from someone—especially from a caregiver who is already burdened. Asking for what you want clearly and confidently, explaining why you need the help, and appreciating the help you receive are all useful strategies for getting what you need from others to help you heal, the authors write.
Given that protecting a relationship with a health provider is paramount to many cancer patients, the authors give special attention to communicating with doctors, including this advice (using the acronym FAST):
Be F air: Validate your feelings and wishes as well as the other person’s.
air: Validate your feelings and wishes as well as the other person’s. A ssert: Don’t apologize for making a request, having an opinion, or disagreeing.
ssert: Don’t apologize for making a request, having an opinion, or disagreeing. S tick to your values: Make sure you are acting in a morally sound way.
tick to your values: Make sure you are acting in a morally sound way. Be Truthful: Don’t make excuses, lie, or act helpless when you’re not.
Keeping interactions with others kind, honest, and assertive is the best way to preserve relationships through a long treatment.
Connect to Meaning
While no one wants to suffer from cancer, it can be an opportunity to remember what is most important in life. Whether it’s your relationships with others, your work or creative endeavors, the beauty of the world around you, or your religious faith, you can take moments to appreciate the things of value to you and embrace opportunities to connect to them.
“Being clear about what sustains and matters to you can help you assess whether you’re living the way you want to or decide what if any changes you want to make to promote the more meaningful parts of life,” write Stuntz and Linehan.
Meaning in life is central to happiness, and finding meaning in the midst of suffering can help people stay more resilient as they go through trauma. Nurturing meaning in life could involve writing a gratitude letter to someone who made a difference to you, volunteering to help others suffering from cancer, or writing a song or poem. Whatever you do to find meaning, though, remember not to do it because you “should” or to fulfill someone else’s agenda, but because it truly helps sustain you.
While none of these strategies are foolproof, they can help people who are going through cancer manage, and that’s good to know. On the other hand, I would argue that this advice is useful for anyone going through difficult times, health-related or not. We could all be more mindful, offer ourselves more self-compassion, be better fact checkers, treat our support networks kindly, and search for meaning in life. The book, though geared to cancer survivors, really speaks to us all.
Jill Suttie, Psy.D., is Greater Good’s book review editor and a frequent contributor to the magazine. This article was originally published by the Greater Good online magazine.~Simply holding your phone farther from your face and using the speak- erphone function can significantly lower your exposure.(Andrea Piacquadio/Pexels)
iPhone Radiation: Easiest Ways to Protect Yourself & Reduce Exposure
Beloved by many but iPhones top the charts when it comes to radiation levels
Given the iconic status and popularity of Apple’s iPhones, there’s something of which all consumers should be aware. iPhone radiation, especially in newer models, is the highest among all smartphones—just barely under the legal limit.
All mobile electronic devices, including cell phones, emit a form of energy called Electromagnetic Field (EMF) radiation. Exposure to EMF radiation can become harmful when we constantly use our mobile devices close to our bodies over long periods of time.
Cell phones emit radio frequency (RF) radiation from wireless Internet and cellular connections, while their batteries emit extremely low frequency (ELF) radiation.
Certain parts of the body, such as the head and torso—including the breasts and reproductive area—are much more vulnerable to EMF emissions than the arms and legs.
Studies have found links between EMF exposure to everything from minor health concerns such as headaches and skin rashes, to very serious concerns, such as fertility problems, DNA fragmentation, cell damage, and cancerous tumors.
Before any cell phone can be legally sold in the U.S., it’s required to undergo testing that determines its SAR rating—which is a measure of the amount of wireless RF radiation that is absorbed by a person’s body as they use the device—by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). RF is on the higher end of the non-ionizing Electromagnetic Spectrum frequencies and is a component of EMF radiation.
This benchmark is an inaccurate measure of how much RF radiation is truly absorbed by consumers, as it fails to account for several variables.
For example, when the SAR rating was established in 1996, it was never imagined that most people would allow their phones to live in their pockets or so close to their bodies. In addition, children are more vulnerable to EMF than adults, and the SAR rating doesn’t take age into account. Nevertheless, a phone’s SAR rating can still help us get a feel for how much RF radiation it emits compared to similar devices.
The SAR rating for phones in the United States typically range from 0.2 at the lowest (thus safest) end of the spectrum, all the way up to 1.60, the legal limit before the phone is considered unsafe for human use.
When all transmitters on the iPhone 6 are on (cellular, WiFi, and Bluetooth), its SAR value is 1.58, and the iPhone 6 Plus reaches 1.59! This is dangerously high, and yet most people aren’t aware of the risk that iPhone radiation poses to their health.
If you own an iPhone, we’re not saying you should toss it and subject yourself to life with a WiFi-devoid, T9-style clunker phone. However, it’s very important to be aware of the amount of iPhone radiation emitted, and to take measures to protect yourself from the damage that EMFs can cause in both the short-term and long-term cumulative use.
Thankfully, there are several easy things you can do to reduce your exposure to iPhone radiation.
Tips for Reducing iPhone Radiation
Distance is one of the greatest forms of protection.
According to basic principles of physics, as distance from a source of EMF radiation increases, intensity of exposure decreases dramatically; in other words, simply putting a few inches between you and your device will considerably reduce the amount of iPhone radiation absorbed by your body. Here are a few ways you can follow this principle:
Use the speakerphone function on your iPhone whenever possible. Keep your iPhone in the standard talk mode, but turn the volume up to the highest setting and hold the phone 2–4 inches away from your head. If you’re not in a noisy space, you should still be able to hear and be heard normally. Opt for wired headphones or, better yet, radiation-free air tube headphones, especially if the call will be long. When you sleep, keep your iPhone at least four feet away from your bed. If you must be on a call while driving, use Apple CarPlay or an auxiliary cord to direct it through the car’s speakers. This has the added upside of promoting safer driving as well as reducing your EMF exposure. Keep your iPhone in a belt holster or in a bag. Better yet, don’t keep your phone on you at all if you won’t need it. Remember, any extra distance helps.
Airplane mode isn’t just for flying.
This feature is a simple way to immediately disable all wireless transmissions, thus reducing iPhone radiation. When airplane mode is enabled, your iPhone is no longer connected to WiFi, Bluetooth, or cellular data, meaning it is no longer constantly sending out RF signals to remain connected.
If you frequently carry your iPhone with you, try to primarily keep the phone in airplane mode, and periodically disable it to check for incoming texts or voicemails—or to make a call/send a text. Switch back to airplane mode as soon as you’re finished using your iPhone. Airplane mode is also useful for preserving your iPhone’s battery life and helping it recharge faster.
To quickly enable airplane mode on older models of iPhones, place your finger on the bottom edge of the screen, swipe upwards, and tap the airplane icon. If you have an iPhone X or later, swipe down from the upper-right corner to access the Control Center. When airplane mode is on, the airplane icon will be orange.
Cut back on unnecessary transmissions.
When your iPhone is attempting to maintain connections to multiple data sources—for example, having WiFi, Bluetooth, cellular data, GPS, and social media apps simultaneously running, a common state for many iPhone users—iPhone radiation is increased as compared to having just one or two essential functions enabled.
One way to reduce transmissions is to make sure your iPhone isn’t constantly running apps like Instagram or location services in the background. Many apps ask for permission to remain constantly synced to cellular data so that we can receive notifications instantly. But how necessary is this? Instead, check your apps manually to see if you have any updates, making sure your iPhone isn’t set to automatically connect to WiFi or cellular data.
And as a bonus, checking apps on your own terms also minimizes the constant distraction your phone can sometimes provide. This way, you have knowledge of, and thus control over, when your iPhone is transmitting to and from these sources.
Know when iPhone radiation is at its worst.
There are conditions in which your iPhone must work harder to maintain a good connection to a source. Consequently, it emits more EMF radiation and poses a greater health risk. This is a common occurrence when you’re in an area or building with poor reception.
If your iPhone has two bars or less, it’s best to avoid making calls until you’re in a location where your phone doesn’t need to compensate for a weak connection. iPhone radiation is also increased while driving. When you’re cruising down the highway at 70 mph, your distance from cell towers is constantly changing, which causes your iPhone to frequently ping as it searches for the most ideal tower or satellite to preserve a strong connection.
Maintaining a connection to a stable data source requires far less energy than repeatedly establishing new connections to constantly fluctuating sources, so it’s best to avoid talking on the phone while driving. If you do need to make a call, keep in mind that iPhone radiation is highest when first making a connection, so avoid putting the phone to your ear until the call is connected. The call timer will begin counting once the connection has been established.
Minimize use.
This tip is very simple to follow: Whenever possible, limit your use of your iPhone, especially when it’s near your body. Choose texting over calling whenever you can. If you must make a call, keep the conversation brief. Catch up with friends in person instead of over the phone. If you habitually make long calls, consider getting a corded landline phone—yes, they still exist!
Don’t keep your iPhone in your bedroom.
If you don’t need your iPhone at night, there’s no need for it to be in your sleeping space. It may be common practice to keep your iPhone on your bedside table as your morning alarm, but digital alarm clocks are very affordable and don’t emit harmful wireless radiation.
Charge your iPhone in a different room if possible. But if you must have it in your bedroom at night, place it as far from your bed as possible and enable airplane mode before your head hits the pillow.
Invest in EMF protection gear.
For various reasons, some of us can’t avoid using our iPhones frequently. For example, you may have a job that always requires you to be reachable by phone. Whether you use your iPhone a lot or a little, it may be wise to use an iPhone radiation case that puts an EMF shielding barrier between your phone and your ear or other parts of the body. This will reduce your direct skin contact with RF and ELF radiation emissions.
If you use headphones frequently while making calls, or just listening to audio, consider using radiation-free air tube headphones, that transmit sound through hollow air tubes instead of traditional wires, as the latter still allows some EMF to reach your head.
If you’re a proud iPhone owner, we hope that you adopt these practices to reduce iPhone radiation, but any smartphone user will benefit from these tips.
If you want to live a long, healthy life enjoying the newest developments in communication technology, you must take proactive steps to protect yourself and loved ones from potentially harmful EMF radiation.
Daniel DeBaun is an internationally recognized expert in EMF radiation, EMF shielding, and EMF-related health issues with special focus on the effect of exposure from mobile devices. Daniel’s concern regarding the health impact of EMF emissions grew from 30 years of engineering experience in the telecommunications industry, where he held a variety of executive positions at SAIC, Telcordia, AT&T, and Bell Labs. He is the co-author of “Radiation Nation: The Fallout of Modern Technology.”~Quercetin: What It Is and Why You Need It
This well-known and widely studied flavonoid is a potent antioxidant with several therapeutic actions
Flavonoids are one of nature’s many therapeutic gifts. Widely found in fruits and vegetables, these phenolic substances have antioxidant properties that protect cells from free radical damage. One of the most well-known and studied flavonoids is quercetin, a flavonol mostly found in onions, berries, citrus fruits, broccoli, and grapes.
A potent antioxidant, quercetin boasts anti-inflammatory, anti-hypertensive, antiobesity, and anti-atherosclerotic actions. Since free radicals figure into the development of diseases, quercetin holds promise for benefitting conditions such as high blood pressure, vascular disorders, and metabolic syndrome, notes an overview published in Pharmacognosy Reviews in 2016. Here is compelling evidence of the health benefits of quercetin.
Potential Anti-Diabetes Aid
The development of Type 2 diabetes has been linked to oxidant stress caused by an unhealthy diet. Toona sinensis leaves, which are rich in quercetin, may reduce the risk of diabetes by reducing oxidative stress in the liver.
A topical compound containing substances such as quercetin, ascorbyl palmitate, and vitamin D3 was formulated to reduce the oxidative stress contributing to peripheral diabetic neuropathy. A preliminary study in 2005 showed that the compound may safely relieve the symptoms of diabetic neuropathy and enhance quality of life.
Quercetin displayed protective effects in the kidneys and liver of obese animal models with Type 2 diabetes. Together with quinic acid, quercetin also helped ameliorate hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and insulin resistance in diabetic rats.
Protection From DNA Damage
A 2011 study investigated the potential protective effects of quercetin against DNA damage and oxidative stress induced by methylmercury in animal subjects. For over 45 days, animal models were orally treated with methylmercury and the flavonoid with doses reflecting human exposure. The team then measured DNA damage in liver cells called hepatocytes and peripheral leukocytes (white blood cells).
The results revealed that methylmercury reduced the concentration of glutathione in the body by 17 percent and caused DNA damage to liver and blood cells. With quercetin, no such effects manifested. “In summary, our results indicate that consumption of quercetin-rich foods may protect mercury-exposed humans against the adverse health effects of the metal,” the researchers wrote.
What makes this benefit particularly crucial is that the prevention of DNA damage is involved in preventing cancer via dietary compounds. An aqueous horseradish extract and its main flavonoids kaempferol and quercetin, for instance, demonstrated potential for DNA damage protection likely by acting as antimutagens.
Chemopreventive Properties
Epidemiological studies vouch for the protective effects of phytochemicals against cancer risk. As a ubiquitous flavonoid, quercetin is an ideal candidate to fight cancer due to its antioxidant and antiproliferative actions.
It’s known to modulate a plethora of molecules for multitargeted cancer prevention and therapy. Here are examples of quercetin’s chemopreventive abilities:
Prevention and Treatment of Various Infections
Quercetin may protect against the antibiotic-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae infection mainly through inhibiting pneumolysin, a pore-forming protein toxin and a major determinant of virulence. Separate findings previously highlighted quercetin’s therapeutic potential in treating sepsis as well.
The flavonoid derivative quercetin-3beta-O-D-glucoside (Q3G) also showed promising antiviral activity against two distinct species of Ebola, outbreaks of which occur frequently in African countries.
Hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, curcumin, and quercetin taken together were also effective in preventing recurrent urinary tract infections in postmenopausal women, found a 2016 controlled clinical trial.
Read more about scientific proof of the therapeutic value and significance of quercetin across numerous health issues and conditions in the nearly 600 abstracts with quercetin research found on the GreenMedInfo.com database.
The GMI Research Group is dedicated to investigating the most important health and environmental issues of the day. Special emphasis will be placed on environmental health. Our focused and deep research will explore the many ways in which the present condition of the human body directly reflects the true state of the ambient environment. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of GreenMedInfo LLC. Sign up for the newsletter at GreenmedInfo.health~Committing to a direction means another direction is left unexplored. This is the reality of our finite resources of time and energy. (George Rudy/Shutterstock)
Why ‘Having It All’ Is a Big Fat Lie
Ignoring that choice includes loss is a delusion that creates unneeded suffering
“I want it all, I want it all, I want it all, and I want it now.” These were the words of a television jingle I heard this weekend, just as I was contemplating a piece on the pressure we (both women and men) face to have it all.
Working with Jane, a mom and physician, I was struck by how tortured she was because she couldn’t spend as much time as she wanted to with her young child.
I wasn’t struck by the fact that time away from her child was painful, but rather by what seemed to be the real source of her suffering.
Specifically, she felt that she was supposed to be able to have the great she wanted as a doctor and also be able to be the loving and present mom to her child. As she saw it, she was doing something wrong because she couldn’t have both.
Another client, Rachel, told me that she wanted to have a more intimate relationship with her husband, to feel more connected. She talked about their less-than-juicy date-night dinners. She shared that her husband was upset because she left her phone on during their dinners in case the kids called (healthy ).
Apparently, as is usually the case, the tech interruptions were breaking the connection between them. She was in my office because she wanted me to design a strategy or digital program that would make it possible for her to be on call all the time to her family, and also intimately connected to her husband in their private time.
On another front, in just the same week, Peter was telling me about his of nine years. He shared that he was deeply nourished by the unconditional love and stability of their bond and how much he loved his life with his partner.
Simultaneously, he was unable to tolerate the fact that when he went to parties or was surrounded by new women, he couldn’t behave like a single person. He was at war internally with the idea that being in a monogamous and committed relationship would mean that his life felt constrained in certain other ways. But underlying his despair, the real suffering was once again coming from his that he shouldn’t have to give up anything he wanted.
And then there’s MK, a college student who is obsessively angry because of the deep confidence his have earned through their mastery in sport or other passions and academic pursuits.
MK acknowledges that he loves to socialize and party and that he’s chosen to spend his time doing just that, as opposed to achieving excellence. And yet again, this young man is confused and frustrated by my inability to devise a plan to give him the he wants and also the that comes with focused hard work, time, and effort.
We’re conditioned to believe that we should have it all—everything we want. Having it all in this society also means not having to give anything up.
Technology encourages this belief. With the touch of a button, we can, in fact, get a lot of things we want without much effort. and advertising also support our belief that everything is possible; if we don’t have everything we want, we need to try harder.
The powers that be want us to believe that we can have it all because it keeps us chasing the dream, a dream of endless acquiring and achieving. Ultimately, having it all (as an idea) is good for business while accepting not having it all is bad for the bottom line.
If we stop chasing it all, the profit margin shrinks.
When I told Rachel that being available 24/7 to her kids might mean not being as available to her husband, and perhaps not enjoying the intimacy she desired, she was disappointed and seemingly not convinced. Similarly, when I advised Peter that his choice to be in a committed relationship—and enjoy the jewels of such a choice—would mean that his experience of socializing would have to change and be perhaps less exciting than if he were single, it seemed as if he had never considered such a concept.
So too, when I laid out the hours that Jane’s career in New York required and juxtaposed that against her young daughter’s wake-and- schedule, she seemed to be seeing the information for the first time, as a scientist almost, recognizing the math of her reality, and thus the real truth of her choices.
Life has limitations, which we oddly aren’t taught. Accepting this truth, however, frees us from the fantasy that keeps us chasing and suffering.
When we believe that we can and should have it all, we end up paralyzed, stuck between choices, and unable to pull the trigger or settle into any path. We’re unwilling to accept the reality that, like it or not, choice involves loss, not occasionally, but always.
When we stick with our storyline that we are the problem, that we are why we can’t have everything we want, we actually end up with nothing. Loss and gain go hand in hand.
Furthermore, when we reject the fact that we have to give up something we want in order to get something we want, we deny ourselves the opportunity for self-compassion. Accepting the loss that comes with choice means also accepting the feelings that come with that loss. It means offering a place for the sadness or disappointment that comes as a result of not being able to enjoy that other path.
With every choice, one door opens and another closes. There is an experience of that door closing, which also needs to be included and treated with .
I often find myself simply saying “yes” to people who come to see me with such dilemmas of choice. Yes, it’s true that if you choose this you will not get to have that. The fact that you can’t figure out a way to have both doesn’t mean there’s something wrong with you; it means you’re living with the reality of being human.
There is only so much time, energy, , and for some of what we want—not all of it. Some wants, by their very nature, eliminate the possibility of other wants.
When I lay it out matter-of-factly in this way, people sometimes look at me as if I have three horns, as if they had never considered such a basic truth.
When we’re willing to accept that life includes non-negotiable limitations, then the value of the choices we make, the meaning in the path we do choose, increases exponentially.
Recognizing and being honest about what we get, and what we choose to give up, intensifies how much what we get actually matters to us.
It’s not your fault if you can’t have it all; it’s not a failing on your part. The idea that we should be able to get everything we want, have every experience we desire, is false.
It’s an idea that keeps us handcuffed, stuck, and suffering.
Time, energy, and attention are malleable at one level, in that they feel like they can expand and contract. But they’re also finite at another level. When we give something our time and attention, it means that we cannot give as much time and attention to something else we may also value.
These are the hard choices that come with life. Approaching our choices with a mature and sober sense of reality, one that takes into account the losses that all choices include, allows us to live a life of deeper intention and meaning. We can feel even more for what we do choose to experience.
When we stop busying ourselves with what we should have and what’s wrong with us that we can’t have it, we get on with the business of determining what we really want. We can choose what’s most important to us. Accepting the reality of choice and its partner, loss, encourages us to get clear about what we really want our life to be about and get on with living it.
Nancy Colier is a psychotherapist, interfaith minister, public speaker, workshop leader and author of “The Power of Off: The Mindful Way to Stay Sane in a Virtual World.” For more information, visit NancyColier.com.~Stretching Can Increase Your Tolerance for Pain
The discomfort caused by stretching may trigger a reaction that reduces back pain, research suggests
To stretch or not to stretch?
Should you do it before or after exercise? Does it prevent or heal injuries? Stretching is always a hot topic. However, while it’s effective in improving flexibility, its usefulness in reducing pain is being questioned.
Back pain is one of the most prevalent health conditions in our society. Up to 80 percent of the population may suffer from it at least once in their lifetime. Many sufferers don’t improve after treatment. What makes treatments work or not? Answering this question could improve the quality of life of millions of people.
Health care professionals, including physiotherapists, often prescribe exercises, such as stretching, to reduce pain. It has long been accepted that stretching provides pain relief by increasing range of motion and decreasing muscle tone or tension, which gives the impression that there is less pain.
However, this perceived pain relief is rarely found to be directly associated with pain reduction. In fact, a recent study showed that increased flexibility was actually associated with a greater tolerance for pain, which occurs during stretching. It’s possible that stretching actually impacts pain perception by activating the areas in our central nervous system that modulate pain.
I am a professor in the physiotherapy program at Laval University and a researcher at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Rehabilitation and Social Integration (CIRRSI) at the university. Together with students from Laval University and McGill University, I have just published new research on the effect of stretching on pain sensitivity: “Stretch-induced hypoalgesia: a pilot study” in the scientific journal Scandinavian Journal of Pain. Hypoalgesia is a decreased sensitivity to painful stimuli. Hypoalgesia can be induced by drugs, or be something as mild as rubbing a stubbed toe to make it hurt less.
For the study, we recruited 22 healthy adults who didn’t suffer from back pain. Each participant was asked to perform a stretch of the lumbar region (lower back), followed by a stretch of the forearm muscles. Participants were instructed to hold each stretch for three minutes to produce a moderate stretching sensation.
Stretching Produces Hypoalgesia
Before and after each exercise, we measured the pain sensitivity threshold for a muscle of the lower back (erectors of the lumbar spine) and a muscle of the forearm (wrist flexors) using an algometer.
An algometer is a measuring instrument equipped with a sensor that calculates the pressure required to produce a sensation we call a pain threshold. This way we can measure the modulation of pain sensitivity, or the change that stretching has on a pain threshold.
We calculated the modulation for each stretch on the extended area and on an area distant from the stretched muscles. A change recorded in an area remote from the stretch would suggest that the regions of the central nervous system that involve pain control were activated, and therefore that the stretch had a systemic effect.
We observed that both stretches produced hypoalgesia. As a result, participants could tolerate more pressure before reaching the pain sensitivity threshold. In other words, after the participants performed the stretches, the experimenter had to apply greater pressure to produce pain.
Following the wrist extension, stretch-induced hypoalgesia was restricted to the stretched area itself, while following the back flex, hypoalgesia was also present at a distance from the stretched area (the forearm).
The Brain Plays a Role?
Stretching isn’t the only type of exercise that produces hypoalgesia. Several studies have shown that aerobic exercise and exercise involving sustained muscle contractions also induce hypoalgesia.
These forms of exercise have received much more attention from the scientific community than stretching has, with some groups of researchers attempting to determine what mechanisms are at work. For example, it has been suggested that exercise-induced hypoalgesia involves the activation of—and interaction between—the opioid system (which includes three opioid receptors in the brain) and the endocannabinoid systems, which control pain.
In a recent review of research published in The Journal of Pain, the authors suggested that exercise-induced hypoalgesia could be explained by the unpleasant and even sometimes painful effect of these exercises. Indeed, we know that activating nociceptors (pain receptors) induces hypoalgesia by triggering systems that modulate pain, including opioids.
For example, holding a hand in a bucket filled with cold water produces an intense pain that induces systemic hypoalgesia. It’s possible that similar mechanisms could also explain our results, since stretching produces a sensation that is sometimes unpleasant and even painful.
The remote, and therefore potentially systemic effects, were only present following back stretching. We believe that stretching the back could involve stretching a larger mass of structures (muscles, ligaments, tendons, skin) than stretching the wrist, and could therefore produce a greater effect. These hypotheses should be tested in future studies.
Stretching Is Not a Panacea
The immediate benefits of stretching in people with back pain could be explained by the fact that regions in the body involved in pain modulation were stimulated. Exercise can also induce hypoalgesia. However, many people with chronic back pain benefit less from the hypoalgesia that is usually induced by exercise. This could be explained by differences in the functioning of regions in the central nervous system that are involved in pain control.
Back stretches may not benefit everyone who suffers from back pain. Severe back pain that persists over time is usually multifactorial, so general management by a health care professional, such as a physiotherapist, may be necessary to reduce or control the pain. Stretching is only one of the treatment tools available to improve one’s health condition and it isn’t a panacea.
Hugo Massé-Alarie is an assistant professor of physiotherapy at Université Laval in Canada. This article was first published on The Conversation.~Having friends and mentors who really understand you can give you support and an antidote to the stress of life. (Elly Fairytale/Pexels)
The Brilliant Tribe
How to avoid burnout by building a tribe
The human body’s sophisticated response to stress is nothing short of a miracle. But the reality is that we overachiever stress junkies spend quite a bit of time being “plugged in” and in fight-or-flight mode, maneuvering strategically between one highly pressurized situation to the next. It’s like a time bomb.
Most people have heard of the fight-or-flight response. To put it clinically, fight-or-flight is the way your brain perceives, your nervous system activates, and your adrenal stress system prepares your body to react to incoming danger or threats. However, this multi-system response to grave danger is also the same group of reactions that manage your day-to-day encounters with high stress.
While our bodies are meant to react to perceived stress on occasion, they’re clearly not capable of withstanding longer periods of fight-or-flight without going through some sort of breakdown.
This elaborate “stress response”—with multiple internal alarms going off—typically occurs on a regular basis throughout the day for most women. This constant state of activation and overstimulation requires continuous effort in order to preserve and restore your adrenal glands. This is incredibly taxing on them, causing their entire system to become sluggish.
So here is where the TRIBE comes in to save the day!
Do you have people close to you in your life who “see you?” Do you have a few people who will call you out and set you straight, love you no matter what, and be there for you when you can’t go one more step?
Do you have friends who have your back when you can’t pull your load, will provide for you when you can’t do so for yourself, will prop you up, will defend you, go to bat for you, or cry with you whenever you need it? Do you have someone you can call at the last moment to go out and just laugh with them? You should. You need a tribe that “sees you” exactly as you are, so that when you can’t see yourself, they can help you find your way.
Tribes are essential for success and personal sanity when you’re busy changing the world. But this support system doesn’t just magically appear and can take quite a while to construct. To be clear, your tribe isn’t just helping you get work done—their role is much deeper than that. The fact that your tribe “sees you” is, in my opinion, the reason why you need them in your life.
So how do you build your tribe?
Start with a clear intention and desire to have the group you want.
Consider listening to women or men talk, and see how you feel in their presence. For example, do you feel “up,” supported, enlightened, or engaged when talking with them? Can you see this person standing strong for you?
Start small and stay focused.
Pace yourself, and don’t feel obligated to bring a member into your tribe if you know they will be more work than you the have time or energy for. Think of the qualities you want your tribe to have. For instance, start with things like: doesn’t judge, has a sense of humor, is an artist, lives with wide-open passion, and is loyal.
Take an inventory of your current friends, family, etc.
This will help you determine if there is already the start of a tribe right in front of you. Stay true to what you want in your inner circle.
Listen to your inner voice and instincts.
Listen to that “gut” feeling about a person. Your body will tell you. Do you feel drawn to them right away—like you’ve known them for years—or do they make you put up your guard?
Pay attention to their social media posts.
This is a great way to root out the crazies.
Consider doing something you are passionate about, besides working.
Go to a class, join a club, or learn something new that you’ve always wanted to learn. Doing this might enable you to meet other people with similar interests.
Begin spending time with these people and make it a priority to do so.
Find a common interest between your potential tribe members and you, and invite them over. Keep it purposeful.
If you take these steps, you may reap some fantastic rewards:
Support when you feel like giving up.
More energy and strength than you could ever generate alone.
Enrichment through many life-long relationships.
An encouraging community that allows you to make your passion your livelihood.
Feeling like the luckiest person in the world to be surrounded by those who care about you and have your back.
And perhaps the greatest—and most unexpected—gift is that leading a community will serve as a catalyst for you to become a better human being.
Best of luck to you on your tribal journey!
Nisha Jackson is a nationally recognized hormone and functional medicine expert, renowned lecturer, motivational speaker, radio host, columnist, author of best-seller “Brilliant Burnout,” and founder of OnePeak Medical Clinics in Oregon. For 30 years, her approach to medicine has successfully reversed chronic problems such as fatigue, brain fog, depression, insomnia, and lack of stamina.~Top 10 Reasons to Eat Organic
Industrial agriculture takes a toll on our bodies—and our planet
Eating organic isn’t a fad. In fact, a 2019 report from the U.S. Department of Agriculture stated that sales from U.S. organic farms reached $9.9 billion, a 31 percent increase from 2016 and 2019. Whether you’re avoiding pesticides, looking for a healthier diet, or concerned about the environment, there is no shortage of reasons to eat organic foods. So if you’ve been on the fence looking at those greener organic pastures, wait no more. Here are 10 delicious reasons to take a bite of an organic apple today.
1. Environmental Health
According to Cornell entomologist David Pimentel, it’s estimated that only 0.1 percent of applied pesticides reach the target pests. The bulk of pesticides (99 percent) are left to impact the environment. Waterways and farmland are contaminated by chemical run-off from farms. Arguably one of the largest environmental disasters has been the loss of quality soil. Many organic farmers grow bio-diverse crops rather than the industrial monoculture model, which depletes the soil.
Organic management practices, such as crop rotation, substantially enhance soil quality and restore nitrogen and organic components. In short, chemically produced food is damaging our soil.
2. Safe Drinking Water
The more chemicals applied per acre, the greater the challenge in preserving water quality. The Dead Zone in the Gulf of Mexico, an area of low oxygen that can kill fish and marine life, is the most graphic example of the enormous harm caused when farm chemicals, flowing off of millions of acres, congregate in the mighty Mississippi. So, not only is chemically dependent agriculture damaging our drinking water, it’s also harming our waterways and oceans.
3. Health Risks
It should be no surprise that the chemical pesticides that kill off pests are also causing harm to your health. But it doesn’t just stop with harming you; pesticide, herbicide, and chemical fertilizer usage pose health risks to farmers and farm workers. Pesticides ingested by pregnant women have been linked to birth defects and deformities. Studies have also shown that some herbicides and pesticides stimulate the growth of breast cancer cells and cause mammary cancer in rats.
Organic crops cannot be grown with synthetic persistent chemicals, sewage sludge, irradiation, animal cloning, or genetic engineering. The USDA organic seal guarantees that farmers abide by these standards. By eating organic, you will dramatically reduce the amount of pesticide residue you ingest on a daily basis, thus reducing your risk for diseases.~Changing Our Thinking About Thoughts
An excerpt from the new book 'Can't Stop Thinking: How to Let Go of Anxiety and Free Yourself from Obsessive Rumination'
Awareness
Tara came to see me when she was in her mid-30s. By her own account, she had devoted the previous 10 years of her life to conquering and eliminating her obsessive and, as she called it, unstoppable thinking.
She had been devoted to self-help for a decade and tried anything and everything to convince her mind to “stop talking” and specifically, to stop telling her she was worthless. Mostly she had used positive thinking methods, which included affirmations and gratitude practices.
She had worked as hard to change the thoughts she heard in her head.
She was a self-help pickle by now—no longer a cucumber and no going back. But here she was in my office, still struggling and stymied by her unceasing inner chatter, feeling hopeless and beaten, powerless over her thoughts and powerless over what they were doing to her.
I’ve met hundreds of Taras—people who have been disappointed by self-help and psychological fix-it strategies. My practice is filled with folks who were unable to find lasting relief from their excessive thinking through the self-help techniques that forever beckon and promise us a new life. If you also have tried everything on the shelf, don’t despair. It’s not your fault that you haven’t found what you need.
Controlling the content of our thoughts is a temporary fix, a shiny hat over dirty hair. It works to some degree when things are running smoothly and we like what’s happening in our life. But when the going gets tough and life rolls out the hard stuff—which it always does at some point—the positive thoughts don’t stick. The fix-it strategies fail, and we revert back to our old belief systems and historical thinking patterns.
Positive thinking can be helpful, and it feels good, but it doesn’t get at the real problem; it’s not strong enough to create real change in the beliefs that underlie our negative thoughts. Ultimately, it’s just a Band-Aid on a far deeper and more powerful condition.
What makes positive thinking an inadequate solution isn’t just its unreliability. The real reason it falls short is that it’s addressing the wrong problem. When the strategy is to replace negative or unwanted thoughts with positive ones, we’re relying on misguided beliefs, assuming the following: We can and should be able to control our thoughts, what our thoughts are saying is important, our thoughts have the power to control us, and finally, we have to get our thoughts under control before we can be okay. All of which are false.
Positive thinking maintains (incorrectly) that our well-being depends upon what our thoughts are saying at any moment, and thus, our successful management and control of the thoughts are the keys to our happiness. In this system, we are still at the mercy of the contents of our thoughts, still dependent on what is not ours to control. Positive thinking claims to empower us but, at the root, it disempowers us.
Self-help sells a kind of cognitive ammunition, an arsenal for winning the war against our unwanted thoughts. But if what you want is to not feel controlled by your thoughts, then the answer is to stop trying to control your thoughts—stop trying to defeat them. What frees us from negative thinking is not winning the war against our thoughts (over and over again, minute by minute, day by day, for years on end), but rather, removing ourselves from the war altogether.
Stepping Out for Peace of Mind
So then, how do we step out of the battle? What is the strategy for surrendering the fight? The process I’m suggesting begins with a radical shift in perspective. The positive thinking system says that in order for us to be okay, our thoughts have to be okay—to our liking. This suggests that we are reliant upon our thoughts. Essentially, it says we are our thoughts.
But what if this is not true? Stepping out of the battle with your thinking starts by considering that your well-being doesn’t depend on correcting thoughts at all, and furthermore, doesn’t depend on your liking or even agreeing with your thoughts.
Have you ever noticed, when thoughts are not here, even if it’s just for a moment, that you are still here, still awake, still conscious? We remain, with or without thought, which strongly suggests that we aren’t made of our thoughts. How can we still be here if what we are is not here?
As you’ll experience repeatedly through the exercises in this book, sometimes we can see our thoughts happening, see them actually arising and even passing. The fact that we can see our thoughts and hear what they’re saying also tells us that we cannot be our thoughts. We can’t be what we can see happening in front of us. It turns out that well-being depends upon our realizing that we are not our thoughts and our thoughts are not us.
Ask yourself: What if I am not my thoughts? What if I am what hears and sees the thoughts, the awareness within which thoughts are appearing?
Let this possibility germinate in you; walk with it, sit with it, shower with it, eat with it. … notice what happens.
Thoughts appear and disappear within our field of awareness, that much is true. We, however, are not responsible for their content. Thoughts can say what they want and will, and we can still be okay. Our thoughts stop controlling us when we cultivate a separate place inside ourselves from which to observe thoughts and when we stop seeing it as our job to correct and conquer them.
Freedom dawns through awareness, specifically, the awareness to see what’s happening inside your own mind, as an observer. And it begins by surrendering the responsibility for controlling what you see.
“Can’t Stop Thinking: How to Let Go of Anxiety and Free Yourself from Obsessive Rumination” was released in May and is available from Amazon and other book retailers.
Nancy Colier is a psychotherapist, interfaith minister, public speaker, and author of “Can’t Stop Thinking” (2021) “The Power of Off: The Mindful Way to Stay Sane in a Virtual World.” and “Inviting a Monkey to Tea.” For more information, visit NancyColier.com~Study Links Eating a Diet Rich in Fruit and Vegetables With Less Stress
In today’s world, stress is prevalent. Researchers are currently looking for ways to reduce stress through lifestyle interventions. A new study from Edith Cowan University (ECU) has found that eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is associated with less stress.
The Australian Diabetes and Lifestyle (AusDiab) Study aimed to find a link between fruit and vegetable intake and stress levels. To achieve this, they examined 8,600 Australian participants between the ages of 25 and 91.
The study concluded that people who ate at least 470 grams of fruit and vegetables daily had 10 percent lower stress levels compared to those who consumed less than 230 grams of produce. This amount is slightly more than the recommended consumption from the World Health Organization (WHO), which recommends consuming at least 400 grams per day.
Mental well-being is a subject that’s quickly becoming a topic of conversation around the world. It has been found that approximately 1 in 10 people globally live with a mental disorder. With lockdowns and pandemic worries taking effect worldwide over the past year, this number is expected to increase.
While some stress in life is normal, long-term exposure can significantly impact mental health. It can lead to a range of health problems, including heart disease, diabetes, depression, and anxiety. Researchers hope that by finding new links between foods and stress, they can possibly prevent or reduce mental health problems.
The benefits of a healthy diet have been well documented, but very few American’s consume the recommended daily fruit and vegetable intake. This study helps to show the importance of consuming the right foods to keep the body and mind healthy.
Previous studies have shown the link between fruit and vegetables and stress in younger adults. However, this is the first study to find a similar relationship across all ages of adulthood.
How Food Influences Stress
The mechanisms of how fruits and vegetables influence stress remain unclear, so future studies are needed. That said, some mechanisms seem readily apparent, notes the lead researcher of the study.
“Vegetables and fruits contain important nutrients such as vitamins, minerals, flavonoids, and carotenoids that can reduce inflammation and oxidative stress, and therefore improve mental well-being,” said lead researcher Simone Radavelli-Bagatini. “Inflammation and oxidative stress in the body are recognized factors that can lead to increased stress, anxiety and lower mood.”
Researchers can now confirm that eating more fruits and vegetables appears linked to mental well-being. In times such as these, with added stress, it’s more important than ever to eat right and get plenty of exercise. Lifestyle choices can go a long way to living a healthy, happy life.
Sarah Cownley earned a diploma in nutritional therapy from Health Sciences Academy in London, and she enjoys helping others by teaching healthy lifestyle changes through her personal consultations and with her regular contributions to the Doctors Health Press. This article was originally published on Bel Marra Health.~Pet owners may see their cat's fat belly as cute, but being overweight increases their risk of disease, pain, and premature death. (Elizaveta Galitckaia/Shutterstock)
Overweight Cats Risk Serious Disease
Q: My cat Fred’s fat underbelly swings when he walks. I think it’s cute, but his veterinarian says he needs to lose weight. What’s wrong with a cat being overweight?
A: Fred has lots of company: The Association for Pet Obesity Prevention reports that 60 percent of U.S. cats are overweight or obese.
That statistic isn’t surprising, since most domestic cats live sedentary indoor lives where eating is the most exciting activity of the day. High-carbohydrate, calorie-dense kibble is freely available in most homes, and cats are allowed to feast whenever they wish.
Contrast that to cats living in the wild, where these solitary hunters eat small rodents and birds—meals that are low in carbohydrates and high in protein. Because only 10 percent of their 100 to 150 daily hunting attempts are successful, they must actively hunt six to eight hours every day.
While you see Fred’s fat belly as cute, being overweight increases his risk of disease, pain, and premature death.
Overweight cats are prone to diabetes, osteoarthritis, and back pain. Often they can’t even reach around to groom themselves. In addition, overweight cats are more likely to develop urinary disorders, breathing difficulties, heart problems, and cancer.
When they are 8 to 12 years old, obese cats are 2.8 times more likely to die than cats of healthy weight.
To help Fred lose weight, decrease his calorie intake and help him become more active.
Read labels to choose low-calorie food, or ask Fred’s veterinarian to recommend an appropriate diet. Use a measuring cup or kitchen scale to accurately apportion his food.
Cats meow when they want attention, but many people misunderstand and give their cats food instead. When Fred meows, cuddle and play with him until he’s had his fill of affection.
Encourage him to be more active. In one study, increasing playtime by only 10 to 15 minutes a day helped cats lose weight.
In one study, increasing playtime by only 10 to 15 minutes a day helped cats lose weight. (VICUSCHKA/Shutterstock)
Offer Fred places to climb and jump, and rotate his toys to enhance their appeal. Walk him outside on a leash, and consider offering him an outdoor cat enclosure.
Hide small amounts of food throughout your home, changing locations frequently so he has to hunt for his food. Put kibble into food puzzles and incorporate his food ration into games you play together.
I predict that even when he’s lost the necessary weight, you’ll still find him adorable.
Q: Why are my dog Bear’s teeth worn down?
A: If all of Bear’s teeth are worn, he may have played with a few too many tennis balls. Even the clean nylon fuzz that covers tennis balls is abrasive, but when the ball rolls along the ground and picks up grit, it acts like sandpaper and wears down the enamel even more.
If only Bear’s small front teeth, the incisors, are worn, he may have been chewing on himself because he was itchy. The incisors are intended to nibble the last scraps of meat off bones, but if Bear eats regular dog food, his incisors should look normal.
On the other hand, if he’s experienced flea infestations, he may have been chewing on himself, trying to kill the fleas that make him itch. A topical or oral flea preventive can solve this problem.
If Bear is chewing on himself because allergic skin disease is making him itch, talk with your veterinarian about allergy treatment.
Adjacent to the incisors are the canine teeth, the fangs that grasp and hold prey and other objects. Behind the canines are the premolars and molars that form a serrated line that resembles pinking shears. These teeth are admirably suited for cutting and crushing food.
If Bear is instead carrying and chewing ice cubes or rocks, these teeth may be worn and even fractured.
Lee Pickett, VMD, practices companion animal medicine in North Carolina. Contact her at AskTheVet.pet. Copyright 2021 Lee Pickett, VMD. Distributed by Creators.com~‘The Office’ Actor Mark York Dies at 55
By Brandon Sapienza
From New York Daily News
Mark York, who was best known for his role as Billy Merchant in seasons one and two of “The Office,” has died following an illness, according to TMZ. He was 55.
York died last week at Miami Valley Hospital in Ohio. The cause of death has not been confirmed.
The Ohio-born actor headed to California where he found himself playing small TV roles on popular shows such as “CSI: New York” and “Fighting Words.” However, his most famous work came on the hit show “The Office.”
Since 1988, Merchant has used a wheelchair as he was a paraplegic. He did not act for many years and had been working as an inventor, acquiring two patents for his inventions.
York is survived by his parents, and brother.
©2021 New York Daily News. Visit at nydailynews.com. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.~‘F9’ Actor John Cena Apologizes to China in Chinese for Calling Taiwan a Country
John Cena, a star in the newest “Fast & Furious” movie, published a video apologizing in Chinese, hours after Chinese state-run media criticized him for calling Taiwan a country.
“I’m really, really sorry! You must understand that I love and respect China and Chinese people,” Cena said in Mandarin in a video posted on Chinese social media platform Weibo on May 25.
He said after being criticized, he was asked by many people to say sorry to the Chinese people using Mandarin, because “I made a mistake in one interview.”
“Taiwan is the first country [in the world] that will screen Fast & Furious 9 (F9),” Cena said on May 8 when he was interviewed by Taiwanese TVBS.
On May 24, the Chinese state-run tabloid Global Times posted a screenshot of the interview on Weibo and asserted that self-ruled Taiwan is a province of China.
Taiwan is a de facto independent country, with its own military, democratically-elected government, and constitution. But the Chinese regime claims the island as its own and has threatened to unify it by force in recent years, also utilizing psychological warfare tactics.
“China’s threats to invade Taiwan greatly undermine security across the Indo-Pacific region,” Rep. Ken Buck (R-Colo.) told The Epoch Times in reaction to Cena’s apology. “Americans should recognize Taiwan’s autonomy instead of bowing to a country that has blatant disregard for international law and order.”
(L-R) Sung Kang, Vin Diesel, Ludacris, John Cena, and Tyrese Gibson speak onstage during Universal Pictures Presents The Road To F9 Concert and Trailer Drop in Miami on Jan. 31, 2020. (Kevin Winter/Getty Images for Universal Pictures )
Apology
Cena offered an apology on May 25, but didn’t mention Taiwan or discuss the details of his “mistake.”
“I must say now that I did a lot of interviews for F9 … I’m very, very sorry for my mistake,” Cena said. “I must say now, [it’s] very, very, very, very, very important that I love and respect China and Chinese people.”
Cena repeated the same sentence twice without mentioning Taiwan.
Cena’s apology wasn’t approved by some of his Chinese fans, who asked him to say “Taiwan is part of China,” and commented that “you have to choose only one between the Chinese market and the Taiwan provincial market,” “I don’t accept your apology.”
The latest “Fast & Furious” movie premiered in China on May 21 and earned $59.1 million on its opening day, with nearly $136 million over the weekend.
The movie was planned to release in Taiwan—where the movie’s director Justin Lin was born—on May 19, but was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Taiwanese media.
However, Vin Diesel, another F9 star actor, told another story.
Diesel told Chinese fans in English at the F9 China press conference on May 18: “Early this year, we asked our studio to do something that they have never done before. We asked the studio to open Fast & Furious 9 in China first … That is our way to say ‘Thank You, China’ for always being a part of the family.”
Vin Diesel attends the premiere of Sony Pictures’ “Bloodshot” in Los Angeles on March 10, 2020. (Jon Kopaloff/Getty Images)
Hollywood in China
China has the world’s largest movie market, but it isn’t open to all movies. Any movie that wants to be released in China must pass strict censorship rules from the communist regime.
The rules require the movie’s story, footage, music, actors, and directors not to oppose the CCP’s propaganda system.
The best picture winner of the 93rd Academy Awards, Nomadland, was censored in China because the movie’s Chinese-born director Chloé Zhao told Filmmaker magazine in 2013 that her home country was “a place where there are lies everywhere” when she was growing up.
Hollywood film producer Chris Fenton wrote in his book “Feeding the Dragon: Inside the Trillion Dollar Dilemma Facing Hollywood, the NBA, & American Business” that the end of the 2013 movie World War Z included scenes that promote communist China out of concern the movie wouldn’t pass the Chinese regime’s censorship rules.
But despite Fenton’s expectation, World War Z wasn’t allowed to be released in China even after the distributor Paramount removed all China-related clips. It may be because the original story that the movie is based on is a 2006 zombie novel where a plague from China causes a global pandemic.
Pen America published a report in August 2020 titled “Made in Hollywood, Censored in Beijing.” James Tager, the lead author, wrote: “The influence of Chinese [regime’s] censorship has seeped into the U.S. filmmaking industry, imposing a threat to the kinds of films that can be made and the stories that can be told.”
Eva Fu contributed to this report.~Josh Duggar Released as He Awaits Trial on Child Pornography
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark.—Former reality TV star Josh Duggar was released from an Arkansas jail Thursday as he awaits trial on federal charges that he possessed and downloaded child pornography.
Duggar, 33, did not speak to reporters as he walked out of the Washington County jail in Fayetteville with his attorney Thursday afternoon, a day after a federal judge granted Duggar’s release while he awaits his July 6 trial. Duggar will be confined to the home of family friends who have agreed to serve as his custodians.
Duggar was indicted last Friday after being arrested by U.S. Marshals. He has pleaded not guilty.
Duggar starred on TLC’s “19 Kids and Counting” until it was pulled from the network in 2015 following revelations that Duggar had molested four of his sisters and a babysitter. Duggar’s parents said he had confessed to the fondling and apologized.
Duggar previously apologized for a pornography addiction and cheating on his wife.
A federal agent testified Wednesday that multiple pornographic images of children, including toddlers, had been downloaded to a computer at a car dealership that Duggar owned in May 2019.
A monitoring program that sent reports to Duggar’s wife about his activity had been installed, but the images and videos were downloaded after software had been installed that allowed him to download them without being monitored, the agent said.
Under the terms of his release, Duggar can have contact with his children but only with his wife present. He cannot be around any other minors, including other relatives.~Actress Tawny Kitaen arrives at the opening night of 'Rain- A Tribute To The Beatles' at the Pantages Theatre in Hollywood, Calif., on April 12, 2011. (Angela Weiss/Getty Images for Pantages Theatre)
Tawny Kitaen, Star of ’80s Rock Music Videos, Dies at 59
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.—Tawny Kitaen, the sultry red-haired actress who appeared in rock music videos during the heyday of MTV and starred opposite Tom Hanks in the 1984 comedy “Bachelor Party,” has died. She was 59.
The Orange County coroner’s office said she died at her home in Newport Beach on Friday. The cause of death was not immediately released.
Her daughters, Wynter and Raine, confirmed their mother’s death on Kitaen’s Instagram account.
“We just want to say thank you for all of you, her fans and her friends, for always showing her such support and love. You gave her life everyday,” their statement said.
Kitaen became the rock world’s “video vixen” after appearing on the cover of two albums from the heavy metal band Ratt and starring in several music videos for Whitesnake, including the 1987 smash song “Here I Go Again.” The video, played repeatedly on the burgeoning music television network, featured Kitaen performing cartwheels on the hood of a Jaguar.
She also starred as the fiancee to Tom Hanks’ character in the comedy “Bachelor Party,” and as Jerry Seinfeld’s girlfriend in a 1991 episode of “Seinfeld.” Other TV credits included a stint as co-host of “America’s Funniest People” and on the reality shows “The Surreal Life” and “Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew,” in which she revealed her struggle with substance abuse.
Kitaen had a tumultuous personal life, which included a brief marriage to Whitesnake’s lead singer, David Coverdale, and a rocky marriage to baseball pitcher Chuck Finley, with whom she had two daughters.
“My sincere condolences to her children, her family, friends & fans,” Coverdale tweeted on Saturday.
By Daisy Nguyen~Chloe Zhao, winner of the awards for best picture and director for "Nomadland," poses in the press room at the Oscars at Union Station in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 25, 2021. (Chris Pizzello/Pool/AP Photo)
China Mutes Reaction to Zhao’s Oscars as S. Korea Lauds Youn
TAIPEI, Taiwan—Chloé Zhao’s history-making Oscars sweep, winning best director and best picture, is being met with a muted response in her country of birth, and even censorship.
Zhao’s “Nomadland” is the second film directed by a woman to win a best picture Oscar. She is the first woman of color and second woman ever to win the Oscars for best director.
Yet, in China, where Zhao was born, her history-making success has not been trumpeted or celebrated. State media in China remained silent as of Monday afternoon, with no mention of her win by either CCTV and Xinhua, the two main state-run outlets.
Producers Peter Spears, from (L), Frances McDormand, Chloe Zhao, Mollye Asher and Dan Janvey, winners of the award for best picture for “Nomadland,” pose in the press room at the Oscars at Union Station in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 25, 2021. (Chris Pizzello, Pool/AP)
Instead, there was even censorship. A post announcing Zhao’s directing win by film magazine Watch Movies, which has over 14 million followers on the ubiquitous Weibo microblog, was censored a few hours after it appeared Monday morning. A hashtag called “Chloe Zhao wins Best Director” was also censored on the platform with users coming across an error message saying, “according to relevant laws and regulations and policies, the page is not found.”
Some users resorting to using “zt” to post about Zhao, using the initials of her full name in Chinese, Zhou Ting. Typing in Zhou’s name in Chinese on Weibo brought up only unrelated posts from the beginning of April. A search for “Oscars” showed only official posts from the South Korean and U.S. embassies.
A phone shows a search page from Douban for Nomadland resulting in the message “the search results could not be displayed in accordance to relevant laws and regulations.” in Beijing, China, on April 26, 2021. (Ng Han Guan/AP Photo)
Douban, an app popular with film buffs, banned searches for “Nomadland” and “Zhao Ting” saying that “the search results could not be displayed in accordance to relevant laws and regulations.” Multiple discussion threads about Zhao’s win were deleted on the app as well. A news article on WeChat, the largest messaging app in the country, was also deleted.
Still, the news of her wins spread onto the Chinese internet, with individual web users and bloggers cheering Zhao. Many took note of her acceptance speech, in which Zhao quoted a line from a poem written in the 13th century that she, like many other Chinese children, had memorized as a child, which translates as, “People are good at birth.”
In stark contrast, South Korea’s Youn Yuh-jung, who won over audiences playing the grandmother in “Minari” could still be searched on the Chinese internet. Youn nabbed best supporting actress award, becoming the first Korean performer to win an Oscar.
Yuh-jung Youn in a scene from “Minari.” (A24 via AP)
A visitor watches a TV screen showing a news program with file footage reporting South Korean actress Yuh-Jung Youn received the Oscar for best supporting actress for her performance in “Minari,” at Seoul Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea, on April 26, 2021. (Lee Jin-man/AP Photo)
And in Youn’s home of South Korea, “Actor Youn Yuh-jung” topped Twitter’s trending list while other South Korean celebrities quickly offered their congratulations. Lee Byung-hun, a South Korean actor known abroad for his role as “Storm Shadow” on the “G.I. Joe” series, posted a photo of Youn clutching an Oscar trophy. “Impossible is just an opinion,” he wrote on the post. Bae Doona from the acclaimed Netflix series “Kingdom” and a well-known South Korean actor Kim Hye-soo also congratulated Youn on their social media accounts.
Zhao faced a nationalist backlash in March when she won a Golden Globe for best director, with internet users in China questioning whether she could be called Chinese and some saying she had insulted her home country in comments on the political system. China’s press, television and social media are tightly controlled by the ruling Communist Party, either directly or through self-censorship, and online criticism can frequently result in calls for boycotts of entertainers or name brands.
Before the backlash in March, the film was slated for an April 23 release in China according to local media, but it did not open last week and there was no official word on a release. Employees at two cinemas in Beijing said they did not know of any upcoming showings of the film.
Chloe Zhao attends the drive-in premiere of “Nomadland” hosted by Fox Searchlight and the Telluride Film Festival at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., on Sept. 11, 2020. (Amy Sussman/Getty Images)
Offline, however, some celebrated Zhao’s win and offered congratulations.
“Wow that’s incredible—winning a world’s top award as a Chinese person,” said Zhou Lu, 35, who worked at a publisher in Beijing. She said she had not heard of Zhao before, however, but would plan to watch the film.
Others pointed out that the nationalism should not have a place in the discussion about the film.
“Her win is deserved, and it has nothing to do with her country or her ethnicity,” said Victory Dong, a 19-year-old college student who uses Douban.
But Dong did not feel any particular connection with Zhao just based on her country of birth. “She is a global citizen, I am not.”
By Huizhong Wu~A helicopter flies a banner advertising the 2nd part of the Lord of the Rings trilogy 'Two Towers' movie in Auckland, New Zealand on Dec. 19, 2002. (Michael Bradley/Getty Images)
CCP Pulls Down Hollywood Blockbusters For Political Propaganda
Chinese theaters suddenly became empty this month after the Hollywood classic trilogy “The Lord of the Rings” was replaced with Communist Party propaganda movies.
On April 1, the first day of the change, the box office revenue for five pre-cultural revolution films, which were first released before 1965, was zero. Three others had very limited income. On the second day, ticket-selling websites removed the showtimes of the six oldest movies.
“I have waited for almost a month for the re-release of Peter Jackson’s epic,” a Chinese netizen posted on social media Weibo on April 6. “I won’t go to the cinema if there’s no ‘The Lord of the Rings,’” the netizen said. “My happy April is gone. It made me even feel that I shouldn’t go to the cinema in May,” another netizen commented on the post.
The Chinese regime ordered all theaters to release over 10 propaganda movies every month from April to December, to celebrate the party’s 100th anniversary. Each theater must show at least two propaganda movies five times per week.
It’s unclear whether the Hollywood blockbusters can be re-released in China.
A screening of “The Lord of the Rings” in Beverly Hills, Calif., on June 30, 2008. (Katy Winn/Getty Images)
The Lord of the Rings
This year is the 20th anniversary of “The Lord Of The Rings,” an adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien’s classic fantasy book series. To entertain its fans, the trilogy planned to re-release its 4K digitally restored version in China on April 9, 16, and 23.
Historically, classic movies had good box office ratings in China, although their first releases were three or four months later than in the United States. According to box office records, the trilogy grossed more than $25 million from 2002 to 2004 in China.
The trilogy’s re-release attracted Chinese fans.
A screenshot posted in March on Taopiaopiao, an online movie ticketing website, shows 120,523 people bought tickets for “The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring;” 94,153 people bought tickets for “The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers;” and 128,084 people bought tickets for “The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.”
The NAC’s “The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring in Concert” added a new dimension to the popular film that was released to great acclaim in 2001. (Courtesy of National Arts Centre)
Political Needs
In China, propaganda requests or the regime’s orders take priority over cinema profits.
The Chinese State Film Administration issued a notice on March 19 requiring all cinemas to show at least two officially designated propaganda films five times a week from April 1 to the end of December, to assist the CCP’s celebration of its 100th anniversary.
In general, the pre-Cultural Revolution propaganda films told stories about the CCP bravely seizing power and that Chinese people enjoyed working hard to support the regime. Later, propaganda movies in China highlighted the CCP’s victories in the anti-Japanese war, the Korean War (or as the CCP calls it, the war to resist U.S. aggression and aid Korea), and the civil war between the CCP and the Kuomintang from 1946 to 1949, as well as Chinese people’s love for the CCP.
The mandatory screening of 100 red films launched by the CCP’s Publicity Department “is once again promoting a hatred-based ideology that actually distorts the minds of the Chinese people, especially young people, and turns them into psychotic, persecutory paranoiacs,” said Alexander Liao, a China expert and journalist that contributes to The Epoch Times.
Chinese propaganda movies advance the CCP’s political needs, said a Chinese current affairs commentator. Therefore, Chinese theaters have to arrange the showtimes for these movies.
“China’s movie market is deformed, and no matter how much money Hollywood blockbusters can make, they still have to make way for the political needs of the CCP,” said U.S.-based current affairs commentator Li Yanming in an interview with the Chinese Epoch Times.
“Over the years, Hollywood has voluntarily modified its films to meet the requirements of the CCP for the Chinese market, but its schedule and box office is still controlled by the political needs of the CCP,” said Li. “This is also a tragedy for Hollywood.”~Actor Charles Grodin attends the opening night gala world premiere of "Captain Phillips" during the 51st New York Film Festival at Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center on September 27, 2013 in New York City. (Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
Charles Grodin, ‘Midnight Run,’ ‘Heartbreak Kid,’ Star, Dies
Charles Grodin, the droll, offbeat actor and writer who scored as a caddish newlywed in “The Heartbreak Kid” and later had roles ranging from Robert De Niro’s counterpart in the comic thriller “Midnight Run” to the bedeviled father in the “Beethoven” comedies, has died. He was 86.
Grodin died Tuesday at him in Wilton, Connecticut, from bone marrow cancer, his son, Nicholas Grodin, said.
Known for his dead-pan style and everyday looks, Grodin also appeared in “Dave,” “The Woman in Red,” “Rosemary’s Baby” and “Heaven Can Wait.” On Broadway, he starred with Ellen Burstyn in the long-running 1970s comedy “Same Time, Next Year,” and he found many other outlets for his talents.
In the 1990s, he made his mark as a liberal commentator on radio and TV. He also wrote plays and television scripts, winning an Emmy for his work on a 1997 Paul Simon special, and wrote several books humorously ruminating on his ups and downs in show business.
Actors, he wrote, should “think not so much about getting ahead as becoming as good as you can be, so you’re ready when you do get an opportunity. I did that, so I didn’t suffer from the frustration of all the rejections. They just gave me more time.” He spelled out that advice in his first book, “It Would Be So Nice If You Weren’t Here,” published in 1989.
Grodin became a star in the 1970s, but might have broken through years earlier: He auditioned for the title role in Mike Nichols’s “The Graduate,” which came out in 1967. But the part for what became a classic went instead to Dustin Hoffman.
Grodin did have a small role in “Rosemary’s Baby” and was part of the large cast of Nichols’s adaptation of “Catch-22″ before he gained wide notice in the 1972 Elaine May comedy “The Heartbreak Kid.”
He starred as a Jewish newlywed who abandons his comically neurotic bride to pursue a beautiful, wealthy blonde played by Cybill Shepherd. The movie was a hit and Grodin received high praise. He commented: “After seeing the movie, a lot of people would approach me with the idea of punching me in the nose.”
In the next few years, Grodin played in a lavish 1976 film remake of “King Kong” as the greedy showman who brings the big ape to New York. (The World Trade Center replaced the Empire State Building in the climax.) He was Warren Beatty’s devious lawyer in “Heaven Can Wait,” and Gene Wilder’s friend in “The Woman in Red” (Less successfully, he appeared in May’s 1987 adventure comedy “Ishtar,” a notorious flop).
In 1988′s “Midnight Run,” Grodin was a bail-jumping accountant who took millions from a mobster and De Niro was the bounty hunter trying to bring him cross-country to Los Angeles. They’re being chased by police, another bounty hunter and the Mob, and because Grodin is afraid of flying, they are forced to go by car, bus, even boxcar.
“Beethoven” brought him success in the family-animal comedy genre in 1992. Asked why he took up such a role, he told The Associated Press he was happy to get the work.
“I’m not that much in demand,” Grodin replied. “It’s not like I have this stack of wonderful offers. I’m just delighted they wanted me.”
Amid his film gigs, Grodin became a familiar face on late-night TV, perfecting a character who would confront Johnny Carson or others with a fake aggressiveness that made audiences cringe and laugh at the same time.
“It’s all a joke,” he told The Los Angeles Times in 1995. “It’s just a thing. It was a choice to do that.”
His biggest stage success, by far, was “Same Time, Next Year,” which opened on Broadway in 1975 and ran nearly 3 1/2 years. He and Burstyn were two people who—though each happily married—meet in the same hotel once a year for an extramarital fling. Beyond the humor, the play won praise for deftly tracing the changes in their lives, and in society, from the 1950s to the ’70s. Critic Clive Barnes called Grodin’s character “a monument to male insecurity, gorgeously inept.”
After 1994’s “My Summer Story,” Grodin largely abandoned acting. From 1995 to 1998, he hosted a talk show on CNBC cable network. He moved to MSNBC and then to CBS’ “60 Minutes II.”
In his 2002 book, “I Like It Better When You’re Funny,” he said too many TV programmers’ believe that viewers are best served “if we hear only from lifelong journalists.” He argued that “people outside of Washington and in professions other than journalism” also deserved a soapbox.
He returned to the big screen in 2006 as Zach Braff’s know-it-all father-in-law in “The Ex.” More recent credits include the films “An Imperfect Murder” and “The Comedian” and the TV series “Louie.”
Grodin was born Charles Grodinsky in Pittsburgh in 1935, son of a wholesale dry goods seller who died when Charles was 18. He played basketball and later described himself as “a rough kid, always getting kicked out of class.”
He studied at the University of Miami and the Pittsburgh Playhouse, worked in summer theater and then struggled in New York, working nights as a cab driver, postal clerk and watchman while studying acting during the day.
In 1962 Grodin made his Broadway debut and received good notices in “Tchin Tchin,” a three-character play starring Anthony Quinn. He followed with “Absence of a Cello” in 1964.
He co-wrote and directed a short-lived 1966 off-Broadway show called “Hooray! It’s a Glorious Day … and all that.” That same year, he made his movie debut in a low-budget flop called “Sex and the College Girl.”
In 1969, Grodin demonstrated his early interest in politics by helping write and direct “Songs of America,” a TV special starring Simon and Garfunkel that incorporated civil rights and antiwar messages. But the original sponsor pulled out and Simon later called the little-noticed effort “a tragedy.”
Simon returned with a special in 1977 that spoofed show business and featured Grodin as the show’s bumbling producer. Grodin and his co-writers won Emmys.
Grodin and his first wife, Julia Ferguson, had a daughter, comedian Marion Grodin. The marriage ended in divorce. He and his second wife, Elissa Durwood, had a son, Nicholas.
By Jake Coyle~‘I Should Have Been Bit’: Loyal Dog Takes Rattlesnake Bite for Her Owner, Is Recovering
A loyal dog is recovering after being bitten by a rattlesnake in an encounter where she took a venomous bite in place of her owner.
Earlier this month, Megan Montano stopped by her home off Vandegrift Boulevard in Oceanside, California, during her lunch break.
She let her dogs out into the backyard patio. Montano came out and knelt to put a leash on her chihuahua, Rebel—unaware of the danger that was lurking next to the house.
While dealing with Rebel, she noticed her 3-year-old Great Dane Mia acting strangely, as though wary of some would-be intruder.
Mia got right behind her owner and suddenly jumped in shock.
“All of a sudden, I kind of felt her bump into my side, and rear back, while making a noise,” Montano told ABC 10. “I threw my head to the left and I saw the snake.”
Right behind Montano, a 1 1/2-foot rattlesnake had struck. She was just too lucky that Mia had stood in between her and the venomous viper.
“I should have been bit,” she said. “I don’t know how I wasn’t bit.”
(Courtesy of Megan Montano)
A rattlesnake in Megan’s yard. (Courtesy of Megan Montano)
Montano realized it was the rattlesnake her dog had been wary of. Mia, who had gone to inspect the snake, had been bitten on the mouth.
“She kept trying to hit her mouth with her paw,” the owner said. “Instantly I knew it had bitten her.”
She said that Mia’s mouth started swelling and she immediately rushed Mia to a nearby vet who gave her a dose of antivenom.
She was released that night after her condition had stabilized. However, four days later, she was taken back to the vet after showing more symptoms.
Megan with her dog Mia. (Courtesy of Megan Montano)
“I would say Mia is most definitely my hero,” Montano told the outlet, noting that the Great Dane is recuperating well.
The intruding rattlesnake was then found, captured, and relocated to a safer place. Montano advises fellow pet owners to be vigilant this season to avoid a similar encounter.
“Be aware of your surroundings, and just be smart. Have your head on a swivel at all times,” Montano warned.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~Zucchini and Feta Fritters
In the summer months in our restaurant, we used to grate about 24 pounds of zucchini every evening for these. It was incredible how many of them would be ordered. We used just feta in the original recipe but the addition of some hard cheese only makes them better. They are a perfect snack after a long day on the beach.
Serves 4 to 6 as a sharing plate
4 large zucchini
1 large red onion, diced
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 large handful of fresh mint leaves, chopped
1 handful of fresh dill, chopped
3 1/2 ounces feta, crumbled
3 1/2 ounces strong hard cheese, such as Manchego, Pecorino, or Parmesan, coarsely grated
4 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour (possibly a bit more), plus extra for dusting
2 organic eggs
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Generous 3/4 cup vegetable oil, for frying
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
Grate the zucchini using the coarse side of a box grater, then salt them and let them drain for 10 minutes.
Fry the red onion gently in the olive oil until translucent. Squeeze the zucchini to get rid of excess water and place in a bowl with the onion. Add the mint, dill, feta, and hard cheese. Add the flour and eggs and mix everything together. Season with oregano, salt, and pepper. The mixture will be quite loose but manageable enough to create the fritters.
Heat the oil until hot but not smoking. Check by dropping in a bit of the mixture—it should bubble instantly. Take a large tablespoon of the mixture, roll in the flour, and fry in the hot oil until golden. Repeat until all the mixture is used up.
Recipe reprinted with permission from “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea” by Marianna Leivaditaki. Published by Interlink Books.~World War II Love Letters Discovered Under UK Hotel Floorboards During Renovation
The love letters of a World War II couple have been discovered in an oceanside hotel in England, where they were concealed underneath the floorboards for nearly eight decades.
Found beneath a first-floor utility room at the Esplanade Hotel in Scarborough during renovations, the letters tell the story of two lovers pining for one another during World War II.
The letters are estimated to have been written between 1941 to 1944 according to Scarborough Archaeological and Historical Society, reported BBC.
In the notes, they share the details of their daily lives, how time drags on during the war, and how much they love and miss one another, the report said.
The nameless man in the letters writes, “I’m so glad I’m coming home again… Oh darling I’m so lonely without you.”
Other objects found with the letters include chocolate wrappers, cigarette packets, and ticket stubs, the report said.
The Scarborough Archaeological and Historical Society (SAHS) said that they will be collaborating with the Esplanade Hotel in researching the origins of the letters.
“We will be working with Esplanade Hotel Scarborough on a new World War II project,” the SAHS said in a statement. “We are looking through and researching some of the objects, which include love letters, ticket stubs, cigarette packets and [an] array of chocolate wrappers and tins.”
Researchers hope to uncover the identity of the lovers and have been tracking down clues.
According to the BBC report, the writers’ names have been chewed away by mice over the years. The only clue to their identity was a letter “M” signed at the bottom of one of the notes.
During the war, the Esplanade Hotel was used for military accommodations, for soldiers in training, or on their way to a new assignment.
Mary Woods, with the Scarborough Archaeological and Historical Society, who is heading the investigation, told BBC that there is evidence that the hotel was used by different squadrons during the war.
Among the squadrons who utilized the hotel were the 7th Battalion, Rifle Brigade; the Royal Signals; and the 184th Tunneling Company of the Royal Engineers, the report said.
On March 11, Woods had a breakthrough in her research, iNews reports.
Woods and her team found out that the address mentioned in the letter was occupied by the couple named Jessie and James McConnel. This exciting update led to finding that the McConnells had a son named John, who was in the Royal Air Force (RAF).
“We think the letters may have come from him and been written to a girlfriend while he was stationed at the hotel,” Woods told iNews.
Sadly, John McConnell died in a plane crash at the young age of 19. The SAHS is now searching for relatives of John or his sister, Annie, who was also in the RAF.
The SAHS said in a statement: “The letters are extremely evocative and bring home the personal emotions of people who experienced the traumas brought about as a result of war. It would be truly wonderful if by some miracle, we were able to find out more about these wartime sweethearts and their lives after the war.”
Whoever these lovers were, one thing is certain, their love has been immortalized by this incredible find.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter~