Researchers Discover Remarkable 1,600-Year-Old Mosaic From Byzantine Age in Israel
Archaeologists carrying out excavations on a site prior to a new neighborhood development in Yavne, in Israel, recently discovered a well-preserved ancient mosaic.
The mosaic, which displays colorful geometric motifs in a black rectangular frame, was discovered by Israel Antiquities Authority researchers, led by Avishag Reiss.
The find dates back to the Byzantine period, during the Fourth to Fifth Centuries
The ancient mosaic floor discovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
An overhead view of the dig site in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Archaeologists have been carrying out large-scale excavations in Yavne, in collaboration with the Israel Land Authority, as part of the city’s development program.
The mosaic was amazingly well preserved and is suspected to have been part of a luxurious residential building in a wealthy area.
It is the first such colored mosaic floor to be found in Yavne, in an industrial area, said Elie Haddad, director of the excavation, of the Israel Antiquities Authority.
The ancient floor was found coated with a white patina (gloss or film), a the result of the find’s age, which led them to believe, initially, that the floor was a simple paving.
Detail of the impressive 1,600-year-old mosaic uncovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Detail of the ancient mosaic motif. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
“At first, we did not realize that the floor is multicolored,” said Haddad in a statement. “We assumed that it was a simple white paving belonging to yet another industrial installation.
“But black patches dotted around the mosaic suggested that it was more than one color and prompted us to remove the whitish patina that had coated it for years.”
The conservation director applied a special acid to the artwork with a brush to remove the patina, and to their surprise, a colorful mosaic ornamented with geometric motifs was revealed.
Such mosaics are unusual in industrial areas, and this one could indicate the possibility of more residential remains, said Haddad.
A wide-angle shot of the dig site and surrounding areas. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
After the mosaic was documented, drawn, and photographed, Israel Antiquities Authority officials transferred it to their workshop at the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem for treatment and preservation by experts.
The Israel Antiquities Authority, in collaboration with the Yavne municipality and Israel Land Authority, intends to make the mosaic available for viewing by the public and has identified a strategic location to place it.
The Yavne municipality, which focuses on making archaeology accessible to the town’s residents, is currently planning the infrastructure for the mosaic display, which will be placed in the plaza near Yavne’s cultural center.
An aerial view of the excavation site. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Preservation and relocation for the ancient floor will be carried out using ancient technological methods and materials similar to those used in antiquity for the sake of cultural authenticity.
“I am happy that the mosaic will be displayed in a central location in the city, so that the values embodied in its heritage are preserved and made accessible to the general public,” said Diego Barkan, from the Israel Antiquities Authority, in the statement.
Yavne mayor, Zvi Gur-Ari, emphasized the importance of culture preservation in the current age for the sake of future generations.
“Archaeological preservation and awareness of the past are important values in the city of Yavne, which has a magnificent history,” he said. “Future generations should also be able to see how the city evolved throughout history.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterPhotos: The Profound Bond Between Mongolia’s Last Eagle Keepers and Their Mighty Birds
Venturing to Mongolia to meet the country’s last remaining nomadic eagle keepers, Russian photographer Daniel Kordan turned his reverence into a series of incredible photographs.
Kordan’s work, a breathtaking mixture of epic landscape photography and intimate portraiture, exemplifies the bond between the keepers and their birds—an elusive 1,000-year-old tradition that runs the risk of dying out.
Today, fewer than 300 men keep falconry in western Mongolia’s Altai region alive.
Skilled handlers train young birds of prey—golden eagles are preferred, although they are hard to train—to assist in hunting foxes and hares for meat and fur.
The practice is known to the nomads as berkutchi. Once the domain of the noble classes, berkutchi has become a right of passage for young Mongolian men of the region, reported My Modern Met.
“I’m fascinated by nomad culture,” Kordan, who used local guides to connect with nomad families, told the outlet.
“It’s an elusive culture, almost extinct nowadays,” he added. “But these people try to keep the tradition and pass it on through generations.”
“All nomad families are connected,” the photographer said. After meeting one family, doors opened; a Russian native, Kordan was able to speak easily with the elders who know Russian from Soviet times.
Eagle keepers forge a profound bond with their winged companions, and their lives are inextricably intertwined.
A day in the life of a keeper, said Kordan, begins early with meal preparation; caring for horses, sheep and goat herds; and making furs to fend off the bitter cold. In winter, nomad groups migrate thousands of kilometers across the Gobi Desert to warmer climes, deconstructing and reassembling their ger tents as they go.
“That’s lots of endurance and work,” he told the outlet.
Perhaps most surprising, Kordan said, was his realization that the Mongolian nomads enjoy their lives, despite hardship.
Caring for one bird can last over a decade. These mighty predators are usually released back into the wild when they turn 10 to 12 years old.
“The bond with the bird is so strong!” Kordan said. “Actually, even the eyes and the look of the eagle and its master resemble each other.”
Engrossed by the possibilities of photography since growing up in a beautiful lake region near Moscow, Kordan graduated art school and studied quantum physics before taking up residence behind the lens.
“Nature is my inspiration,” he states on his website.
In venturing to Mongolia and capturing his subjects on film, Kordan’s respect for eagle keeping grew exponentially. Now, the photographer, who leads workshops and expeditions himself, hopes that others will choose to help preserve these unique traditions.
The talented photographer oversees guided tours on camelback and an annual eagle-keeping festival, a smaller event than the nomads’ own berkutchi festival that has come to attract thousands of tourists.
Kordan’s festival is an opportunity for visitors to witness and photograph scenic displays of Mongolian falconry for themselves.
“I’m very happy that I can support nomadic culture in this way,” he told My Modern Met. “We need to respect our ancestors, and continuing to preserve traditional culture definitely makes our lives better and filled with purpose.”
Check more of Kordan’s fascinating work below. Enjoy!
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterVideo Shows Track Team Helping Fellow Runner Battling Cancer Cross Finish Line—and It Goes Viral
A high school track and field team in New York was caught on video helping their fellow runner, who is suffering from cancer, cross the finish line after enduring grueling treatment.
The video, posted by the school on Twitter, went viral and has inspired viewers across the internet.
Sherendehowa High School senior Yeva Klingbeil is shown being helped by three teammates to finish the race, before the rest of the team rush in to cheer and chant her name.
(Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
In November 2019, Yeva was diagnosed with a rare type of cancer called rhabdomyosarcoma, which affected her jaw. Before the devastating diagnosis, she was an active member of the school track team.
She began chemotherapy in 2019 to treat the cancerous mass deposit around her jaw. Unfortunately, the chemo did not go well and caused damage to her brain stem.
The damage had an adverse effect on her health. She became very weak, developed breathing complications, and lost her ability to swallow food and fluids.
She was placed in intensive care for several weeks, which saw her regain some of her functions.
Since then, the tumor around her jaw has shrunk to half its original size, though she still can’t swallow any food. She breathes on a ventilator and feeds through a tube.
Taking to Twitter, the school’s athletic department posted the video, showing the team’s excitement at having Yeva back by their side.
Yeva Klingbeil (second from the right). (Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
“What a great moment to see Senior Yeva Klingbeil at today’s girls’ track & field meet,” they captioned in the video.
“Yeva’s teammates help her across the line in the 4X1 relay. Yeva continues her fight with cancer and we continue to be amazed by her spirit!!”
The tweet garnered over 250,000 views, and judging from the number of shares and comments, followers are impressed and inspired by both Yeva and her teammates.
“This is what helps me keep my faith in humanity, despite all the bad that exists in this world,” commented Twitter user Charles Kuyper.
This was not the first time the team came through for Yeva. In November 2020, coach Cloutier organized a marathon to help raise funds for her hospital bill.
Though the team had aimed to raise $10,000, the marathon brought in a whopping $21,473.
The surplus was shared with Family Reach organization, which offers financial assistance to families with cancer patients.
“Yeva and her family pray her brain will continue healing and she will be able to breathe, walk and eat once again,” Cloutier wrote on Yeva’s fundraising page.
“While Yeva has gone through all of this and more, she has never stopped caring about her friends and family and has never given up hope of recovery.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterArizona Gov. Doug Ducey answers a question about the arrival of a COVID-19 vaccine in Arizona, while Arizona Department of Health Services Director Dr. Cara Christ listens, in Phoenix, Ariz., on Dec. 2, 2020. (Ross D. Franklin, Pool/AP Photo, File)
Arizona Governor Vetoes 22 Bills, Including Election Integrity and Anti-Critical Race Theory Legislation
Arizona Republican Gov. Doug Ducey vetoed 22 bills on May 28, including measures relating to election integrity and critical race theory, arguing that lawmakers need to focus on passing a budget.
“Today, I vetoed 22 bills. Some are good policy, but with one month left until the end of the fiscal year, we need to focus first on passing a budget. That should be priority one. The other stuff can wait,” Ducey wrote on Twitter.
The governor, a Republican, said he won’t sign any more bills until a budget is passed.
Republicans in the state, including Arizona GOP Chairwoman Kelli Ward, noted that some of the bills that were vetoed include an election integrity measure and a bill that would prohibit entities from using taxpayer funds to promote the quasi-Marxist critical race theory (CRT).
According to the Arizona Legislature’s website, House Bill 2792—which would bar the mass mailing of ballots to residents who didn’t request them—was vetoed on May 28 by the governor. The measure would make it a felony for an election official to send a ballot to a voter who hadn’t requested it.
Another bill that was vetoed by Ducey, Senate Bill 1074, would prohibit the critical race theory training of government workers that “presents any form of blame or judgment on the basis of race, ethnicity, or sex,” reported the Arizona Mirror.
Ducey also vetoed Senate Bill 1514, which would have made the state’s Department of Housing provide emergency shelter for homeless senior residents in Maricopa County, among other pieces of legislation.
The governor also vetoed measures proposed by Democrats in the legislature, including two bills that would establish new testing and inspection requirements for marijuana dispensaries, the Mirror reported.
House Speaker Rusty Bowers, a Republican, described Ducey’s May 28 executive actions as disappointing.
“Truthfully, I’m not happy about it, but it’s a civics lesson reminder that it takes 31-16-1 to be successful here. Sometimes we forget about the one,” Bowers told the Arizona Mirror. “I believe that the proposed budget is good, and I’m determined to keep working with our diverse caucus until there is unity to move forward. I’m optimistic that will happen soon.”
Ward was more forceful in her criticism.
“Twenty-two bills that the legislative branch worked all session on. Bills that went through the process & passed & went to the executive’s desk. This tyrannical approach is dangerous to what #WeThePeople in AZ support #ElectionIntegrity #StopCRT,” Ward wrote on Twitter.
But Ducey wrote that the state will “have the opportunity to make responsible and significant investments in K-12 education, higher education, infrastructure, and local communities, all while delivering historic tax relief to working families and small businesses.”
“Once the budget passes, I’m willing to consider some of these other issues. But until then, I will not be signing any additional bills. Let’s focus on our jobs, get to work and pass the budget,” he said, without making reference to election measures or critical race theory.
However, state Rep. Mark Finchem, a Republican currently running for Arizona’s Secretary of State office, said on “War Room Pandemic” that the state legislature didn’t pass the budget because it “has so much pork in it, you’d think we were going to a barbecue,” accusing Ducey of acting as a “petty dictator.”
The governor’s office didn’t respond to a request for comment by The Epoch Times by press time.Voters line up to cast their ballots in Fort Worth, Texas. in a file photo. (Photo by Ron Jenkins/Getty Images)
Texas Senate Passes Major GOP-Backed Election Reform Bill
The Texas state Senate passed a sweeping election overhaul bill on May 30 that has been criticized by high-profile Democrats over provisions that they say expands restrictions and penalties.
The legislation was approved largely along party lines after an overnight debate stretched into the morning of May 30, according to local media. The House had a deadline of midnight on May 30 to approve the proposal.
The measure would grant more power to poll watchers by giving them more access inside polling areas, while creating new penalties against election officials who restrict poll watchers’ movements. The proposal would also allow a judge to void the outcome of an election if the number of fraudulent votes could change the result.
Officials who send mail-in ballots to people who didn’t request them may also face criminal penalties, according to the bill.
Previously, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, signaled that he supports such election measures.
According to a tweet from the Texas District and County Attorneys Association, at least 16 new or enhanced crimes related to elections were included in the bill.
State Sen. Bryan Hughes, a Republican, said that the measure would keep Texas’s elections fair and honest.
“We want elections to be secure and accessible,” said Hughes, who authored the bill, according to the Dallas Morning News.
During the Senate session, Hughes said his bill has “common sense” mandates against fraud, the Texas Tribune reported.
“The provisions of this bill apply equally across the board,” Hughes said in response to allegations from Democrats that the bill would restrict minority voters.
Over the weekend, President Joe Biden weighed in on the bill, alleging in a statement that it “attacks the sacred right to vote.”
“It’s part of an assault on democracy that we’ve seen far too often this year—and often disproportionately targeting black and brown Americans,” Biden said.
The president wasn’t the only high-profile Democrat to weigh in on the Texas bill.
“The Texas law is shameful and Republicans clearly, in Texas and throughout the country, want to make it harder to vote and easier to steal an election,” Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), a member of House Democrats’ leadership, told CBS News on May 30. “That’s the only way I can interpret the voter suppression epidemic that we see working its way from one state, Georgia, to Arizona to Texas and all across the country.”
Marc Elias, a lawyer who has filed a number of election-related lawsuits on behalf of Democrats, signaled that he will file a lawsuit in the coming days.
“States to watch for NEW voting rights litigation (in order of likelihood) 1. Texas,” he wrote on Twitter on May 30.
Elias also filed a lawsuit to challenge an election integrity bill that was signed into law in Florida several weeks ago.
In addition to Florida and Texas, a number of Republican-led states have pushed for or have passed laws meant to add new safeguards to elections, drawing considerable condemnation from Democrats, who have claimed Republicans are trying to rig voting in their favor.
In mid-May, Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, signed a bill that updated the eligibility requirements to remain on the state’s early voting list in a bid to make elections more secure.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis departs after signing into law Senate Bill 7072 at Florida International University in Miami on May 24, 2021. (Samira Bouaou/The Epoch Times)
DeSantis Says He’ll ‘Enforce Florida Law’ Against Vaccine Passports After Cruise Line Unveils Plans
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has reiterated that his state won’t embrace so-called “vaccine passports” in the midst of confusion about whether a federally mandated system will be implemented for airplane and cruise travelers.
“We are going to enforce Florida law,” DeSantis, a Republican, said on May 30 in reference to a bill he signed earlier this month prohibiting passport-type systems.
Some cruise lines, which conduct a large amount of business in Florida, may be at risk of violating state law after Celebrity Cruises gained approval from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to require that cruise passengers and crew members show proof of vaccination.
Going a step further, DeSantis said Celebrity Cruises would be breaking Florida law if it attempted to require that passengers show proof of vaccination against COVID-19. The Florida state legislature passed Senate Bill 2006, banning passport-like systems being implemented in Florida in early May.
“You don’t pass laws and then not enforce them against giant corporations. It doesn’t work that way,” DeSantis said on May 28.
After the CDC shut down cruise operators last year during the pandemic, the federal health agency said cruises can resume under more stringent guidelines.
DeSantis said that the agency, however, “does not have the authority” to shut down cruise lines.
Despite statements from the governor, Celebrity Cruises—a subsidiary of cruise giant Royal Caribbean—said through a spokesperson that they’ll proceed with their plans and will require people to show proof of vaccination.
“We are working to finalize our health and safety measures for cruises departing from U.S. ports, including Florida, in collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as local authorities in the U.S. and destinations we visit,” Celebrity Cruise spokesperson Susan Lomax told USA Today.
“Our commitment to sail with fully vaccinated crew members and guests still stands as it is a meaningful layer to ensure we make every effort to help keep safe our guests, crew, and the communities we visit.”
Vaccine passports have been criticized by DeSantis, other Republicans, and civil liberties groups for potentially creating a two-tiered society consisting of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. Another concern, raised by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and pro-privacy groups, highlights that health agencies and private companies would be able to more easily gain access to the health records of U.S. citizens, potentially violating the 1996 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
The federal government has shown little interest in creating or enforcing a passport-type system. After Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas told ABC News on May 28 that there’s some consideration of implementing such a system for airplane travelers, a White House press secretary told reporters later in the day that the administration has not “moved our stance” on the issue.EU Executive Urges Reopening in Summer to Vaccinated Tourists
BRUSSELS—The European Commission proposed on Monday that vaccinated people should be exempt from testing or quarantines when traveling from one EU country to another, and urged a gradual easing of travel measures as COVID-19 inoculations accelerate.
The EU reached a deal earlier this month on COVID-19 certificates that will show, via a QR code, whether a person is vaccinated, immune based on recovery from infection, or has had a recent negative test. The scheme should be ready by July 1.
The European Union executive, which is seeking to end a current patchwork of travel measures across the bloc, said on Monday that testing or quarantines should not apply to people who have been fully vaccinated 14 days prior to travel.
About half of EU adults have received a first vaccine dose.
People who have recovered from a COVID-19 infection should be exempt from restrictions for 180 days. The Commission also proposed that more reliable, but more expensive PCR tests should be valid for 72 hours and rapid antigen tests for 48 hours.
Children, who are not yet in line for vaccinations, should not have to undergo a quarantine if travelling with parents who are exempt. Those aged six and older can be subject to tests.
The Commission has also included an “emergency brake” to reimpose measures for travelers from areas where there is a surge of infections or many cases of a particular virus variant.
Travel from “dark red” areas, with more than 150 COVID-19 cases per 100,000 people over 14 days, would be “strongly discouraged,” while for green areas, with fewer than 25 cases, no restrictions would apply, the Commission proposal said.
Only Malta is currently green.
The proposal, which is being put to EU member states, is similar to that already agreed for travel from outside the bloc for vaccinated travelers and those coming from “safe” countries, although tests can still apply.
By Philip BlenkinsopPeople wait in line to receive a dose of the Sinovac's CoronaVac vaccine during a vaccination day for 65-year-old and older citizens in Duque de Caxias near Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on March 29, 2021. (Ricardo Moraes/Reuters)
Death Toll Exceeds a Million in Chinese Vaccine-Reliant Latin America
The death toll from the CCP virus in Latin America and the Caribbean has now exceeded 1 million.
In a statement, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) said that as of May 21, nearly 89 percent of deaths in Latin America and the Caribbean occurred in the countries of Brazil (44.3 percent), Mexico (22.1 percent), Colombia (8.3 percent), Argentina (7.3 percent) and Peru (6.7 percent). Three percent of the deaths were concentrated in Central America and 1 percent in the Caribbean.
As of May 31, Brazil had more than 462,000 deaths attributed to the pandemic, the second-highest reported death toll in the world after the United States. Mexico, with more than 223,000 deaths, ranks second in the region, followed by Colombia with more than 88,000 deaths.
Currently, the PAHO has delivered more than 12 million doses of vaccines procured through the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 vaccines global access initiative to Latin America and the Caribbean, with an additional 770,000 doses being shipped to these areas.
According to the data of the PAHO, several Latin American countries, including Chile, El Salvador, Brazil, and Uruguay, rely almost entirely on vaccines produced in China.
On May 20, the Chinese communist regime’s Xinhua News Agency reported that Chinese vaccines Sinovac, Sinopharm, and CanSino are being administered on a large scale in Latin American countries such as Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Argentina, and Peru.
The report also said that, according to the latest statistics from the PAHO, as of May 14, 26 Latin American and Caribbean countries had received more than 84 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, nearly 55 million doses—or around 65 percent—were Chinese vaccines.
NBC reported on May 23 that China has shipped more than 165 million doses of Chinese vaccines to Latin America and the Caribbean in recent months.
Gao Fu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control, speaks during a State Council Information Office press conference in Beijing on Jan. 26, 2020. (Noel Celis/AFP via Getty Images)
The report quoted experts saying the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is using vaccines to advance its agenda in Latin America. Latin American officials have also said the CCP has asked Latin America to cut ties with Taiwan in exchange for the vaccine.
Many countries in South and Central America and the Middle East that have embraced communist China’s “vaccine diplomacy,” including Brazil, Chile, Pakistan, and Turkey, have seen a spike in confirmed viral infections and strong side effects among vaccine recipients after widespread administration of the Sinovac vaccine.
On April 10, at a Chinese national conference on vaccines and health, Gao Fu, director of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, admitted that China’s vaccines don’t offer much protection and that the effectiveness might be improved by using several types of vaccines in an alternating fashion.
In January, the Instituto Butantan, a leading Brazilian producer of vaccines, lowered the effectiveness rate of the Sinovac vaccine from 77.96 percent to 50.38 percent, and in March, three phases of clinical trials in Peru of the Sinopharm vaccine showed that the vaccine by Beijing Bio, a subsidiary of Sinopharm, was only 11.5 percent effective; Wuhan Bio’s vaccine was 33 percent effective, far below the CCP’s claim of nearly 80 percent.A nurse draws a dose from a vial of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine in Thornton, Colo., on March 6, 2021. (Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images)
Florida Concert Charging $18 for Vaccinated, $1,000 for Unvaccinated
People who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to get into an upcoming concert in Florida for $18 in advance or $20 at the show.
People who aren’t fully vaccinated are being charged $999.99.
The concert, featuring punk bands, is slated to take place on June 26 at VFW Post 39 in St. Petersburg.
Concertgoers who show proof of vaccination and who received their final shot on or before June 12 will be eligible for what’s being termed discounted tickets.
Others will have to pay the higher price.
“If you do not care about the discount, tickets are available for a flat rate of $999.99,” the concert’s website states.
“Everyone is eligible for a vaccine now, so if you need one, you can find out where to get one here: https://www.vaccines.gov/”
Paul Williams, a promoter, said he came up with the idea.
“We’re just trying to do a show safely. And they should go out and get vaccinated to protect themselves and their families and their community,” Williams told WFTS.
Ray Carlisle, singer and guitar player for one of the bands, Teenage Bottlerocket, supports the treatment.
“We’re all vaccinated. We encourage everyone to get vaccinated so we can see you in the pit,” he said.
Not everyone does.
“I think it’s terrible because not everyone can get the vaccine. I can’t because I had COVID too recently,” Brittney Wigen, a punk rock fan who wanted to go to the concert, told WFTS, adding that she has antibodies against the CCP virus.
Williams said he’s not a doctor so he can’t accept a doctor’s note from Wigen that would support her stance.
Carlisle had a suggestion for people who haven’t gotten a vaccine.
“Perhaps put together a GoFundMe and all the other weirdo anti-vaxxers can help support you going to Teenage Bottlerocket for a thousand dollars. That’s always an option,” he said.EU Executive Urges Reopening in Summer to Vaccinated Tourists
BRUSSELS—The European Commission proposed on Monday that vaccinated people should be exempt from testing or quarantines when traveling from one EU country to another, and urged a gradual easing of travel measures as COVID-19 inoculations accelerate.
The EU reached a deal earlier this month on COVID-19 certificates that will show, via a QR code, whether a person is vaccinated, immune based on recovery from infection, or has had a recent negative test. The scheme should be ready by July 1.
The European Union executive, which is seeking to end a current patchwork of travel measures across the bloc, said on Monday that testing or quarantines should not apply to people who have been fully vaccinated 14 days prior to travel.
About half of EU adults have received a first vaccine dose.
People who have recovered from a COVID-19 infection should be exempt from restrictions for 180 days. The Commission also proposed that more reliable, but more expensive PCR tests should be valid for 72 hours and rapid antigen tests for 48 hours.
Children, who are not yet in line for vaccinations, should not have to undergo a quarantine if travelling with parents who are exempt. Those aged six and older can be subject to tests.
The Commission has also included an “emergency brake” to reimpose measures for travelers from areas where there is a surge of infections or many cases of a particular virus variant.
Travel from “dark red” areas, with more than 150 COVID-19 cases per 100,000 people over 14 days, would be “strongly discouraged,” while for green areas, with fewer than 25 cases, no restrictions would apply, the Commission proposal said.
Only Malta is currently green.
The proposal, which is being put to EU member states, is similar to that already agreed for travel from outside the bloc for vaccinated travelers and those coming from “safe” countries, although tests can still apply.
By Philip BlenkinsopCONMEBOL President Alejandro Dominguez during the Copa America Argentina-Colombia 2020 Draw in Cartagena, Colombia, on Dec. 3, 2019. (Luisa Gonzalez/Reuters)
Brazil to Host Copa America as Pandemic-Hit Argentina Withdraws
ASUNCION/RIO DE JANEIRO—The Copa America soccer tournament will take place in Brazil next month, the South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL) said on Monday, thanking President Jair Bolsonaro for stepping in after original host Argentina pulled out following a surge of COVID-19 cases.
The decision means the oldest international tournament in the world will kick off as planned on June 13, with the final on July 10.
The tournament is set to feature many of the greatest players in the soccer world, with Argentines Lionel Messi and Sergio Aguero, Brazilian Neymar and Uruguay’s Luis Suarez among those expected to participate. CONMEBOL has promised all players will be vaccinated before the tournament begins.
“The Brazilian government has shown agility and decisive thinking at a crucial moment for South American football,” CONMEBOL president Alejandro Dominguez said in a statement.
“Brazil is in a time of stability, it has proven infrastructure and recent experience in hosting a tournament of this magnitude.”
Brazil hosted the Copa America in 2019 and the World Cup in 2014.
In a separate tweet, CONMEBOL thanked Bolsonaro for “opening the country’s doors to what is now the safest sporting event in the world.”
The president’s office directed questions to the sport department at the Ministry of Citizenship, which did not respond to a request for comment.People wait in line to receive a dose of the Sinovac's CoronaVac vaccine during a vaccination day for 65-year-old and older citizens in Duque de Caxias near Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on March 29, 2021. (Ricardo Moraes/Reuters)
Death Toll Exceeds a Million in Chinese Vaccine-Reliant Latin America
The death toll from the CCP virus in Latin America and the Caribbean has now exceeded 1 million.
In a statement, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) said that as of May 21, nearly 89 percent of deaths in Latin America and the Caribbean occurred in the countries of Brazil (44.3 percent), Mexico (22.1 percent), Colombia (8.3 percent), Argentina (7.3 percent) and Peru (6.7 percent). Three percent of the deaths were concentrated in Central America and 1 percent in the Caribbean.
As of May 31, Brazil had more than 462,000 deaths attributed to the pandemic, the second-highest reported death toll in the world after the United States. Mexico, with more than 223,000 deaths, ranks second in the region, followed by Colombia with more than 88,000 deaths.
Currently, the PAHO has delivered more than 12 million doses of vaccines procured through the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 vaccines global access initiative to Latin America and the Caribbean, with an additional 770,000 doses being shipped to these areas.
According to the data of the PAHO, several Latin American countries, including Chile, El Salvador, Brazil, and Uruguay, rely almost entirely on vaccines produced in China.
On May 20, the Chinese communist regime’s Xinhua News Agency reported that Chinese vaccines Sinovac, Sinopharm, and CanSino are being administered on a large scale in Latin American countries such as Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Argentina, and Peru.
The report also said that, according to the latest statistics from the PAHO, as of May 14, 26 Latin American and Caribbean countries had received more than 84 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, nearly 55 million doses—or around 65 percent—were Chinese vaccines.
NBC reported on May 23 that China has shipped more than 165 million doses of Chinese vaccines to Latin America and the Caribbean in recent months.
Gao Fu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control, speaks during a State Council Information Office press conference in Beijing on Jan. 26, 2020. (Noel Celis/AFP via Getty Images)
The report quoted experts saying the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is using vaccines to advance its agenda in Latin America. Latin American officials have also said the CCP has asked Latin America to cut ties with Taiwan in exchange for the vaccine.
Many countries in South and Central America and the Middle East that have embraced communist China’s “vaccine diplomacy,” including Brazil, Chile, Pakistan, and Turkey, have seen a spike in confirmed viral infections and strong side effects among vaccine recipients after widespread administration of the Sinovac vaccine.
On April 10, at a Chinese national conference on vaccines and health, Gao Fu, director of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, admitted that China’s vaccines don’t offer much protection and that the effectiveness might be improved by using several types of vaccines in an alternating fashion.
In January, the Instituto Butantan, a leading Brazilian producer of vaccines, lowered the effectiveness rate of the Sinovac vaccine from 77.96 percent to 50.38 percent, and in March, three phases of clinical trials in Peru of the Sinopharm vaccine showed that the vaccine by Beijing Bio, a subsidiary of Sinopharm, was only 11.5 percent effective; Wuhan Bio’s vaccine was 33 percent effective, far below the CCP’s claim of nearly 80 percent.Manchester City fans in Porto ahead of the Champions League Final, in Porto, Portugal, on May 28, 2021. (Violeta Santos Moura/Reuters)
Portugal’s Government Under Fire Over Champions League Final
LISBON—Portugal’s government has come under fire from lawmakers for sending contradictory COVID-19 messages after allowing thousands of English soccer fans to party in Porto for Saturday’s Champions League final, despite coronavirus restrictions.
In the days leading up to Saturday’s final between Chelsea and Manchester City, big crowds of English fans, who were largely maskless and did not socially distance, took over Porto’s streets to drink and chant team slogans.
“The government and Porto’s mayor should apologize to the Portuguese, who, deprived of so much, are watching this disgrace in the midst of fighting the pandemic,” opposition leader Rui Rio wrote on Twitter.
However precautions were taken which meant all fans had to present a negative COVID-19 test on arrival in Portugal, which is on the British government’s “green” list allowing tourists to visit without quarantining on their return.
Portugal suffered a devastating COVID-19 outbreak earlier this year and masks are still mandatory outdoors if people cannot observe social distancing. Drinking in public places outside of licensed terraces remains prohibited.
Some 16,500 fans were allowed into the Dragao stadium in Porto, upsetting locals who have been banned from attending matches for months. Many other English fans traveled to the city to support their teams from the sidelines.
Francisco Rodrigues dos Santos, leader of Portugal’s right-wing CDS party, also criticized the government, saying it “adopted an absolutely contradictory and inconsistent approach.”
“The way the Champions League final was organised gave a bad image of Portugal and will have unpredictable consequences on public health,” he added.
Last week, a police source told Reuters Portuguese authorities did not have enough time to fully prepare for the final as UEFA only announced it would move the event to Porto from Istanbul around two weeks ago.
Portuguese authorities decided to relax COVID-19 rules for the match last week, no longer requiring fans to stay in “bubbles” and lifting restrictions on movement.
“It is not understandable to allow an event [to take place] that is not allowed to the majority of the citizens of this country,” said Left Bloc leader Catarina Martins.
Some health experts now fear the Portuguese will be less willing to adopt coronavirus preventive measures.
Portugal’s northern region health authority on Sunday asked all those who got close to any Champions League celebrations to monitor for COVID-19 symptoms and reduce contact with others over the next 14 days.
By Catarina DemonyA city view shows the French flag above the skyline of the French capital as the Eiffel Tower and roof tops are seen in Paris on March 30, 2016. (Benoit Tessier/Reuters)
France Tightens Restrictions on Travel From UK Due to Indian Variant
Travellers from the UK will have to provide “compelling reasons” to enter France from Monday as French authorities tighten restrictions to prevent the spread of the Indian variant of coronavirus.
Travel to France from the UK will only be permitted for EU nationals, French residents, or those travelling for essential reasons.
Those who are allowed to make the journey must take a pre-departure COVID-19 test and quarantine for seven days on arrival.
The UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office (FCDO) said the new French rules apply to all air, car, ferry, and train passengers.
France is currently listed as an “amber” destination by the UK government that advises against travel there, with British authorities requiring people to self-isolate for 10 days and take two COVID-19 tests on return.
Stricter rules for visitors from the UK were first raised by French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian last week amid concern over the Indian variant.
An explanation of the new rules on the website of the Consulate General of France in London said, “Given the development of the so-called Indian variant, health measures have been tightened for people travelling to France from the UK.”
It added that from Monday morning “compelling reasons will be required for foreign nationals outside the EU not resident in France to travel to France from the UK.”
The website said “a PCR or antigen test less than 48 hours old will be required from anyone travelling to France from the UK,” while on arrival “travellers are obliged to self-isolate for seven days.”
Infographic of global COVID-19 cases and deaths at the end of May 30, 2021. (PA Graphics)
The information added that “due to the low incidence of COVID in the UK, for the moment they will not be subject to systematic checks where they are staying.”
Travellers entering France from outside the European Union, including the UK, have to sign a sworn declaration that they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and that they are not aware of being in contact with someone with the disease in the 14 days before their journey.
As well as proof of the negative pre-departure COVID-19 test for those aged 11 and over, a sworn declaration to self-isolate on arrival in France for seven days must also be made and a second PCR test taken after the quarantine.
The consulate website said that people who had been vaccinated remain subject to the same rules, adding that people are “strongly advised” to keep international travel “to a minimum.”
France’s move follows Germany starting to require people arriving from the UK to go into quarantine for 14 days, again in response to the spread of the Indian variant.
By Tom PilgrimMatthew Murphy, 4, places a rose on a tombstone beside his father, Kevin Murphy, of Springfield, Va., during a volunteer event at Arlington National Cemetery ahead of Memorial Day on May 26, 2019, in Arlington, Va. (Tom Brenner/Getty Images)
This Memorial Day, a New Birth of Freedom
On Memorial Day, we honor those soldiers who gave their lives for our country.
In the Gettysburg Address, perhaps the greatest reflection in our history on such sacrifice, Abraham Lincoln refers to the fallen soldiers as having given “the last full measure of devotion.”
In our nation’s present crisis, we can learn from the devotion of which Lincoln spoke more than 150 years ago.
Speaking after the Union had won a decisive battle, he begins his address by saying: “Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, on this continent, a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure.”
This Memorial Day we are, thankfully, not fighting a civil war, but we are nonetheless engaged in a struggle for the soul of our nation.
Dangerous new ideas are challenging whether we can remain a nation “conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.”
Of course, the very meaning of equality is contested these days. Some seek to turn society in the direction of socialism in order to ensure we all have the exact same conditions of life.
The Declaration of Independence, which Lincoln highly admired, says we’re “created equal.” We are equal in that all possess God-given rights. These confer on us the right to pursue happiness, but they don’t guarantee anyone a particular outcome.
Critical race theory creates division in our nation, as it seeks to make us unequal.
It teaches that some of us are, by virtue of skin color, racists and oppressors, while others, by virtue of skin color, are morally superior.
The proponents of critical race theory often replace our traditional practices of liberty with coercion.
Individuals in corporations and schools are subjected to reeducation sessions reminiscent of China’s Cultural Revolution, in which they must confess their guilt. Those who don’t risk losing their jobs.
A new spirit of intolerance abounds in our land, and many refuse to give voice to their true beliefs for fear of being shunned, or worse.
Behind critical race theory lies the specter of Marxism, dressed in new clothes. It seeks to inflame the wounds our nation carries from past racism in hopes of bringing on a disease fatal to our free republic.
But this Memorial Day offers us the opportunity to begin healing our distressed nation.
Lincoln concludes his remarks at Gettysburg by saying: “It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
This Memorial Day, we need to reflect deeply on the sacrifices of those we honor. They died in devotion to the idea of America, of a free country dedicated to the proposition of equality.
So let us now dedicate ourselves to a “new birth of freedom.” Doing so, we will, with our acts, honor our fallen heroes in the most fitting manner and safeguard the meaning of their sacrifice.
It goes without saying that as we work to revive the principles of equality and freedom, we do so steadfastly but without seeking to make enemies of those whose positions we oppose.
Near the end of the bloodiest war in our nation’s history, Lincoln was able to say, in his Second Inaugural Address, “With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in to bind up the nation’s wounds.”
The strength of our republic lies in our “firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right.”
There are those—revolutionaries who seek to use our freedom to destroy that freedom—who wish the United States ill. These we oppose with all our might.
But the great majority of the advocates of critical race theory and other pernicious ideas are themselves the victims of bad education. While we are unrelenting in opposing their ideas, we treat them with charity. We understand that as poor ideas are replaced with better ones, everyone has a healthy role to play in realizing the destiny of our nation.Programming Alert: Shen Yun to Showcase Lost Techniques of Classic Chinese Dance in Video Premiere
Premier classical Chinese dance company Shen Yun Performing Arts will showcase lost techniques of classic Chinese dance in a video premiere at 8:00 p.m. ET on Monday, May 31.
The video can be preordered online on Shen Yun’s newly launched on-demand video streaming platform at: ShenYunCreations.com.
Founded in 2006 in New York by a group of artists originally from China, Shen Yun states that its mission is to revive 5,000 years of divinely inspired Chinese culture and share it with the world through the universal languages of music and dance.
While China has a long and rich history, much has been lost as a result of deliberate efforts by China’s communist regime to destroy it. During the Cultural Revolution in the 60s and 70s, temples were razed, books were burned, and artists, intellectuals, and members of religious institutions were imprisoned or killed in a systemic effort to destroy the traditional culture.
It is also for this reason that Shen Yun is unable to perform in China. Around the world, however, its performances have become a cultural phenomenon with performances each year in some 20 different countries and 150 cities.
At the core of Shen Yun performances is classical Chinese dance, an ancient art form with a history of thousands of years. Classical Chinese dance, martial arts, and operatic dance have similar movements and postures, also known as shen-fa in Chinese, which have likewise been passed down for millennia, according to an introduction on the Shen Yun Creations website.
The highest achievement of shen-fa is shen-dai-shou (the body leads the arms). However, no one knew how to do it or even truly understood how to apply it before Mr. D.F., the founder and artistic and creative director of Shen Yun Performing Arts, imparted this method.
“Shen-dai-shou is also a method that has been persistently sought after by all kinds of dance forms and physical performing arts,” reads the introduction. “It is a dance technique that people have been searching for since ancient times, something people have talked about but no one can do—it is the highest realm of artistic expression through physical movement. The founder, Artistic and Creative Director of Shen Yun Performing Arts, Mr. D.F., is the one who imparted this method. Shen-fa, moreover, also has the even better method of ‘kua-dai-tui’ (the hips lead the legs), which modern people have not even heard about—an entirely lost art form. Having benefited from Mr. D.F.’s personal instruction in this method, Shen Yun now presents it to the public.”
People can watch more Shen Yun dance showcase videos, Shen Yun Symphony Orchestra concerts, vocal music, dance instructional videos, concertos, and more never-before-published content on ShenYunCreations.President Joe Biden speaks at a Memorial Day event at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle, Del., on May 30, 2021. (Patrick Semansky/AP Photo)
Biden Attends Memorial Day Ceremony, Pays Tribute to Fallen Service Members
President Joe Biden marked Memorial Day with a speech at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia that made reference to U.S. soldiers who have died in past conflicts.
“We owe the honored dead a debt we can never fully repay,” Biden said. “We owe them our whole souls. We owe them our full best efforts to perfect the union for which they died.”
The president stated that the United States has to honor the sacrifices of generations of service members “by sustaining the best of America while honestly confronting all that we must do to make our nation fuller, freer, and more just.”
“Empathy is the fuel of democracy,” Biden said. “Our willingness to see each other not as enemies, neighbors, even when we disagree, to understand what the other is going through.”
The president also warned about creeping authoritarianism across the world and said the United States “was built on an idea, the only nation in the world built on an idea. Every other nation is built on ethnicity, geography, religion, etcetera. We were built on an idea, the idea of liberty, an opportunity for all.”
An honor guard stands at attention during a Memorial Day event attended by President Joe Biden at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle, Del., on May 30, 2021. (Patrick Semansky/AP Photo)
“Between dreams of democracy and appetites for autocracy, which we’re seeing around the world, our troops have fought this battle on fields around the world but also the battle of our time, and the mission falls to each of us each and every day,” Biden said.
Biden also spoke about the death of his own son, Beau, who served in the Iraq War. May 30 marked the sixth anniversary of his death.
“Remember their sacrifice, their valor, and their grace,” Biden said of fallen troops. “Remember their smiles, their loves, their laughter, their essential vibrant and transcendent humanity.
“To those who mourn a loved one today, Jill and I have some idea how you’re feeling. Our losses are not the same, but that black hole you feel in your chest, as if it’s going to suck you into it, we get.”
At one point he pulled out a card from his pocket and noted the number of soldiers who died during the Afghanistan and Iraq wars.
“Seven-thousand and thirty-six fallen angels who have lost their lives to these conflicts,” Biden said. “Duty, honor, and country—they lived for it, they died for it, and we as a nation are eternally grateful.”President Donald Trump salutes as he participates in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery to commemorate Memorial Day and honor those who have died while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces in Arlington, Va., on May 25, 2020. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP via Getty Images)
Trump Pays Tribute to America’s Fallen in Memorial Day Statement
Former President Donald Trump issued a Memorial Day statement honoring the fallen as “unrivaled heroes” who gave their lives to protect “our sacred freedoms” and whose timeless legacy lights the path of “America’s glorious destiny.”
Trump made the remarks in a May 31 statement highlighting the debt of gratitude owed to fallen warriors of the U.S. armed forces and praised “the depth of their devotion, the steel of their resolve, and the purity of their patriotism.”
“On this Memorial Day, we remember the fallen heroes who took their last breaths in defense of our Nation, our families, our citizens, and our sacred freedoms,” Trump said.
“They made the supreme sacrifice so that our people can live in safety and our Nation can thrive in peace. It is because of their gallantry that we can together, as one people, continue our pursuit of America’s glorious destiny.
“We owe all that we are, and everything we ever hope to be, to these unrivaled heroes.”
Trump also called the legacy of those fallen soldiers “immortal” and our loyalty to them “eternal and everlasting.”
“America’s warriors are the single greatest force for justice, peace, liberty, and security among all the nations ever to exist on earth,” Trump said. “God bless our fallen Soldiers, Sailors, Coast Guardsmen, Airmen, and Marines.”
Trump’s statement came as President Joe Biden attended a commemorative ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia.
“All those we honor today gave their lives for the country, but they live forever in our hearts,” Biden said.
Biden praised the generations of service members who have “made the ultimate sacrifice” to protect the country and its ideals.
“We must honor their sacrifice by sustaining the best of America while honestly confronting all that we must do to make our nation fuller, freer, and more just,” he said.
Biden was joined by First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Over 1 million American service members have died in wars and other combat actions since 1775, according to the most recent Congressional Research Service report (pdf) on U.S. military operations casualties.Containers of Johnson's baby powder made by Johnson and Johnson sits on a shelf at Jack's Drug Store in San Anselmo, California, on Oct. 18, 2019. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
Johnson & Johnson Asks High Court to Void $2 Billion Talc Verdict
WASHINGTON—Johnson & Johnson is asking for Supreme Court review of a $2 billion verdict in favor of women who claim they developed ovarian cancer from using the company’s talc products.
The case features an array of high-profile attorneys, some in unusual alliances, including former independent counsel Kenneth Starr, who is representing the women who sued Johnson & Johnson. The nation’s largest business groups are backing the company, and a justice’s father also makes an appearance because of his long association with the trade group for cosmetics and personal care products.
The court could say as soon as Tuesday whether it will get involved.
At the root, Johnson & Johnson argues that the company didn’t get a fair shake in a trial in state court in Missouri that resulted in an initial $4.7 billion verdict in favor of 22 women who used talc products and developed ovarian cancer.
A state appeals court cut more than half the money out of the verdict and eliminated two of the plaintiffs but otherwise upheld the outcome in a trial in which lawyers for both sides presented dueling expert testimony about whether the company’s talc products contain asbestos and whether asbestos-laced talc can cause ovarian cancer.
The jury found for the women on both points, after which Judge Rex M. Burlison wrote that evidence at the trial showed “particularly reprehensible conduct on the part of Defendants.”
The evidence, Burlison wrote, included that the company knew there was asbestos in products aimed at mothers and babies, knew of the potential harm and “misrepresented the safety of these products for decades.”
Nine of the women have died from ovarian cancer, lawyers for the plaintiffs said.
Johnson & Johnson denies that its talc products cause cancer and it called the verdict in the Missouri trial “at odds with decades of independent scientific evaluations confirming Johnson’s Baby Powder is safe, is not contaminated by asbestos and does not cause cancer.” The company also is the maker of one of three COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in the United States.
Health concerns about talcum powders have prompted thousands of U.S. lawsuits by women who claim asbestos in the powder caused their cancer. Talc is a mineral similar in structure to asbestos, which is known to cause cancer, and they are sometimes obtained from the same mines. The cosmetics industry in 1976 agreed to make sure its talc products do not contain detectable amounts of asbestos.
Last year, a U.S. government-led analysis of 250,000 women found no strong evidence linking baby powder with ovarian cancer in the largest analysis to look at the question, though the study’s lead author called the results “very ambiguous.”
The findings were called “overall reassuring” in an editorial published with the study in January 2020 in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study wasn’t definitive but more conclusive research probably isn’t feasible because a dwindling number of women use powder for personal hygiene, the editorial said.
A few months later, the company announced it would stop selling its iconic talc-based Johnson’s Baby Powder in the U.S. and Canada, citing declining demand driven by what it called misinformation about health concerns.
The disputed link between cancer and talc is not really a part of the high court case. Instead, the company said it should have not been forced to defend itself in one trial against claims by women from 12 states, differing backgrounds, and with varying histories of using Johnson & Johnson products containing talc.
The $1.6 billion in punitive damages is out of line and should be reduced, the company also argued in a brief that was written by Neal Katyal, a Washington lawyer who aligns with progressive causes and also represents corporate clients. Katyal, who was the acting top Supreme Court lawyer for a time in the Obama administration, declined an on-the-record interview.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and trade associations for manufacturers, insurers and the pharmaceutical industry are among the business organizations backing Johnson & Johnson’s appeal.
Tiger Joyce, president of the American Tort Reform Association, pointed to how long it took the trial judge to read the jury its instructions as an indication of how unfair the trial was to Johnson & Johnson.
“When a defendant is facing a case where it takes over five hours for the judge to read the jury instructions to the jury, you just have to ask yourself what are we doing here,” said Joyce, whose group generally backs limits on liability lawsuits.
Starr said in an interview with The Associated Press that none of Johnson & Johnson’s legal arguments is worth the court’s time. “As the jury found and as every judge to review this six-week trial record has concluded, Johnson & Johnson’s conduct over decades was reprehensible,” Starr said.
In addition to Starr, other members of the women’s legal team are former Attorney General John Ashcroft and Washington lawyers David Frederick and Tom Goldstein, frequent advocates before the Supreme Court.
Justice Brett Kavanaugh worked for Starr when he investigated the affair between President Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, which led to Clinton’s impeachment.
Another name that pops up in some documents in the case is E. Edward Kavanaugh, who was the longtime president of the Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance Association and is the justice’s father.
Kavanaugh’s group fought efforts to list talc as a carcinogen or attach warning labels to talc products. Kavanaugh is retired and the group now is called the Personal Care Products Council.
Ethicists contacted by the AP said they haven’t seen anything that would warrant the justice having to step aside from the case.
Already, one justice almost certainly won’t take part. Justice Samuel Alito reported last year that he owned $15,000 to $50,000 in Johnson & Johnson stock. Federal law prohibits judges from sitting on cases in which they have financial interest.
By Mark ShermanA member of the Joint Services Honor Guard is reflected on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial prior to a wreath laying ceremony to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War, in Washington on March 29, 2016. In 2012, President Barack Obama signed a presidential proclamation declaring March 29 Vietnam Veterans Day. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
Memorial Day Regret: I Did Not Serve
Commentary
Like many of my generation—and this is not an excuse, merely, shall we say, a “chronological” notation—I never served in the military.
Indeed, thinking myself morally and politically opposed to the Vietnam War, I did what I could to avoid the draft.
1964, the year of my college graduation—I was only twenty that June, or was it still May—it never entered my head I could possibly volunteer for the Army, Navy, Marines, or Air Force. I was going to graduate school, my trusted 2-S exemption in hand.
My only sacrifice, if you can call it that, was that I had to forego a dream I now see as more than a little pretentious, to go to film school in France. My draft board insisted on domestic study so off I went to the Yale School of Drama for a somewhat dubious MFA in playwriting and dramatic literature.
This left me plenty of time to join the ranks on the Washington Mall shouting “Hey, hey, LBJ, how many kids did you kill today?” and “Ho, Ho, Ho Chi Minh, Viet Cong is going to win!”, not to mention the ever-popular “Off the pig!”
I could never get myself to say the latter, aware that we were largely privileged middle class (and sometimes more) college kids attacking working class police. The hypocrisy was pretty clear even then. The joke went “What’re you gonna do if someone breaks into your house? Call a hippie?” (That fifty-year old joke still pertains.)
I remember having many arguments about the war, even screaming ones, with my father who served as a flight surgeon in WWII, although not “in theater” as they say, but domestically.
A couple of years later, when I got married young, my exemption continued. On graduation from Yale, I still could avoid the draft. I didn’t even have to burn my card. Or fake an asthma attack. Or bother to chant “Hell, no, we won’t go!” although I probably did on occasion.
I’m not here to debate the Vietnam War. That’s already been done ad infinitum. And my own political views have long since shifted.
What I want to point out is that many of us standing around our barbecues today, flipping ribs, and downing a Sam Adams, do so in a bit of bad faith. That includes me.
In many of us—again that includes me—is the lingering thought that the reasons we did not serve were not entirely idealistic.
A touch of cowardice might have been buried somewhere not too far below the surface.
Maybe more than a touch.
It was so convenient to be against the war. It got you out of a lot of things.
But I remember being startled when one of my college classmates actually died over there not more than a month after we graduated.
I didn’t know him well. He was in a couple of my classes as a freshman and then we went our separate ways. And he was in ROTC, something I obviously abjured.
There were others shortly thereafter. I read about them in the Dartmouth Alumni Magazine. Like the first one, they were usually students I didn’t know well, not from my set. They didn’t work on the college paper, as I did, or the literary magazine. They didn’t act in undergraduate productions of Shakespeare or Tennessee Williams.
Now, for the most part, that generation that did not serve has taken over. It’s been a long time since we have had a president who was in the military.
Bill Clinton was typical of the type who did not serve, a protestor elevated to commander-in-chief. Does he have any twinges on Memorial Day? I wonder.
What about Donald Trump, who is so pro-military but did not serve? What does he feel about his lack of service now? It would be interesting to hear. I wouldn’t be surprised if he shares my uneasiness.
It’s rather obvious Joe Biden, who of course never served as well, cares about our fallen in only a perfunctory “political” manner, laying a wreath and so forth. (At least he does that—unlike his clueless Vice-President.)
Instead, this Memorial Day our president is concentrating on what happened in Tulsa 100 years ago, issuing an extremely lengthy, detailed presidential proclamation on the subject that you can be certain Biden—the plagiarist who barely made it through law school—did not write himself.
It seems Memorial Day is just another opportunity for him to stoke the already-raging flames of racial enmity in our country. Oh, well…
For me, and I assume for others of my generation, it is a time for reflection.
But it won’t stop me—and shouldn’t stop us—from celebrating our great country. And enjoying ourselves.
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now, editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.U.S. Marines moving positions during battle in Garapan, during the Pacific Campaign of World War II, on Saipan, circa 1943–1945. (U.S. Marine Corps/Getty Images)
A Soldier Fights so That Others Might Live
Commentary
The Medal of Honor citation says it all: “As the perimeter began to be overrun, it became increasingly difficult for Captain Salomon to work on the wounded. He then saw a Japanese soldier bayoneting one of the wounded soldiers lying near the tent. Firing from a squatting position, Captain Salomon quickly killed the enemy soldier. Then, as he turned his attention back to the wounded, two more Japanese soldiers appeared in the front entrance of the tent.
“As these enemy soldiers were killed, four more crawled under the tent walls. Rushing them, Captain Salomon kicked the knife out of the hand of one, shot another, and bayoneted a third. Captain Salomon butted the fourth enemy soldier in the stomach and a wounded comrade then shot and killed the enemy soldier. Realizing the gravity of the situation, Captain Salomon ordered the wounded to make their way as best they could back to the regimental aid station, while he attempted to hold off the enemy until they were clear.
“Captain Salomon then grabbed a rifle from one of the wounded and rushed out of the tent. After four men were killed while manning a machine gun, Captain Salomon took control of it. When his body was later found, 98 dead enemy soldiers were piled in front of his position.”
So who was Benjamin L. Salomon, the man who practically single-handedly took on the entire Imperial Japanese Army on Saipan on July 7, 1944, and fought to his last breath so that others might live?
The first and last answer is, he was an American, doing what Americans have always done best—fighting for the country he loved. Born in Milwaukee in 1914, Salomon studied at Marquette University and the University of Southern California, where he attended dental college and went into private practice. Drafted in the fall of 1940, shortly after FDR instituted the first peacetime draft in U.S. history, Salomon was inducted as a private into the U.S. Army.
The young dentist quickly proved adept at marksmanship with both rifle and pistol, and was quickly promoted to sergeant and given command of a machine-gun unit. With America’s entry into the war after Pearl Harbor, Salomon was promoted to first lieutenant and—despite his talent for war and against his wishes—transferred to the Dental Corps.
Now, a member of the 105th Infantry Regiment and promoted to captain, Salomon hit the beach on the island of Saipan in the Marianas Islands. Under heavy, desperate Japanese resistance, there wasn’t much work for a dentist, so Salomon volunteered to replace his battalion’s surgeon, who had been wounded.
Saipan was critical to the Japanese defense of their home islands, and they were prepared to make the Americans pay dearly for every inch of it. The Japanese commander, Yoshitsugu Saito, had ordered his troops to fight to the last man, and each to kill at least 10 Americans before falling.
“Whether we attack or whether we stay where we are, there is only death. However, in death there is life. I will advance with you to deliver another blow to the American devils and leave my bones on Saipan as a fortress of the Pacific,” he said.
The Medal of Honor citation puts the dire situation into context.
“The Regiment’s 1st and 2nd Battalions were attacked by an overwhelming force estimated between 3,000 and 5,000 Japanese soldiers. It was one of the largest attacks attempted in the Pacific Theater during World War II. Although both units fought furiously, the enemy soon penetrated the Battalions’ combined perimeter and inflicted overwhelming casualties. In the first minutes of the attack, approximately 30 wounded soldiers walked, crawled, or were carried into Captain Salomon’s aid station, and the small tent soon filled with wounded men.”
This was war at its most elemental. The Japanese, with no hope of help and nowhere to run, hid in caves by day and attacked by night. The Army and Marines fought the most brutal war imaginable, with flamethrowers and bayonets and bare hands, in addition to rifles, sidearms, and machine guns. The Japanese would attack in waves, kamikazes of the infantry, attempting to overrun the American positions as the GIs pressed forward.
Salomon’s mobile hospital was set up near the front lines in the early dawn of July 7, just meters between the forward foxholes and the sea. The Japanese burst out of their concealed positions and sent the Americans reeling back. The hospital was soon filled with the wounded as the fighting raged all around it.
Salomon realized his position was untenable and ordered the wounded evacuated while he stayed behind to cover them. It was at this point that his ability with guns and weaponry came into play.
“Everybody’s dead out there,” he was reported to have said. “I can do these guys more good out there than I can in here. I’ll hold them off until you get them to safety. See you later.”
When they found his body, it was riddled with bullet and bayonet wounds, many of them apparently inflicted after death by the enraged enemy. Where Saito had demanded that each of his men kill 10 Americans, one dauntless American had killed more than 100 Japanese.
Salomon’s Medal of Honor was delayed by bureaucratic misinterpretation of the Geneva convention, which outlaws identified medical personnel from taking up arms; Salomon was wearing a Red Cross armband when he died. But in fact, doctors are allowed to fight in defense of their wounded and so, on May 1, 2002—nearly 58 years after his heroic actions—President George W. Bush officially awarded the medal posthumously to Captain Benjamin Lewis Salomon.
The citation concludes: “Captain Salomon’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army.” And, it must be added, upon all Americans who put their country before themselves.
Do we still have such men today?
Michael Walsh is the editor of The-Pipeline.org and the author of “The Devil’s Pleasure Palace” and “The Fiery Angel,” both published by Encounter Books. His latest book, “Last Stands,” a cultural study of military history from the Greeks to the Korean War, was recently published.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Sanction Hong Kong Officials for Torturing Britons
4 to 16 cases of Britons tortured in Hong Kong since 2019, city is no longer safe
Commentary
According to the British government, between four and sixteen allegations of ”mistreatment and torture” against British nationals in Hong Kong occurred since December 2019. Before that, only a single case in 2017 had been recorded against a Briton. This alone merits an increase in Magnitsky human rights sanctions against Hong Kong officials, and their families.
However, cases of mistreatment against others in Hong Kong are a much more serious problem. Last year, a human rights group released a report of 45 testimonies of torture at the hands of Hong Kong police, including “severe assault, excessive use of force, sexual harassment, verbal humiliation, threats of violence, and delayed access to medical or legal assistance while under police control,” according to the Hong Kong Free Press.
There are similar allegations from Pakistanis, Thais, and other non-Europeans. “Detainees have complained about ill-treatment by the guards who had allegedly subjected them to verbal and psychological abuse, and had not provided them with a hygienic environment during detention,” Anna Tsui of a detainee rights group told the South China Morning Post.
Detainee abuse is so bad in Hong Kong that in 2020, inmates of the Tuen Mun center went on hunger strike. All of these cases of human rights abuse of defenseless detainees merit increased Magnitsky sanctions against the officials responsible.
Jimmy Lai, founder of Apple Daily, arrives at the Court of Final Appeal ahead a bail hearing in Hong Kong, China, on Feb. 9, 2021. (Anthony Kwan/Getty Images)
The mistreatment of Britons was reported by the city’s South China Morning Post as tension between Britain and China are on the rise, including over increasing political control imposed by Beijing against the city, which used to be a British colony. A June 2020 National Security Law (NSL) that outlawed political speech supporting Hong Kong’s independence has extraterritorial reach. That means if you vocalize your support for Hong Kong independence, anywhere on the globe, China could try and extradite you for the “offense.” Come to think of it, Hong Kong should be independent.
The exact number of tortured Britons in Hong Kong is unknown to the public as Britain only released the number as “less than five” Britons tortured in December 2019, plus another one to four cases in each of three summer months in 2020. The total cases of torture since December 2019 could therefore be anywhere between four and sixteen. Britain does not want to tell us the exact number, ostensibly in order to honor the privacy of the tortured.
The first case of mistreatment and torture of a Briton in Hong Kong occurred shortly after the anti-government protests crescendoed in December 2019. Other cases occurred in the summer of 2020, shortly after the NSL was imposed by Beijing on the formerly independent city. But according to the Post, “Sources with knowledge of the matter said the cases in the summer of 2020 ‘were not political nor protest related, and were unrelated to the national security law.’”
Thus Britons in Hong Kong could have been arrested for run-of-the-mill infractions, and tortured and mistreated in the process. Nobody is safe. For reference, other countries in which Britons were allegedly mistreated or tortured are Nigeria, Cambodia, and Iraq. Those are the friends that Hong Kong, which should now be seen as a de facto part of China, is keeping. Not a good place to find oneself on holiday.
There were two political cases in 2019 for which British authorities examined allegations of torture and mistreatment. Simon Cheng Man-kit, a British National Overseas (BNO) passport holder was arrested on the mainland-managed side of Kowloon’s high-speed rail terminus in August 2019 after a business trip. He was detained in Shenzhen for two weeks and then released to Hong Kong. Britain’s Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab protested against the alleged mistreatment with a November 2019 summons of China’s ambassador in London.
When the foreign secretary of a country summons an ambassador, the point is to protest and humiliate the ambassador by forcing him or her to come for the meeting. It isn’t a date for tea and crumpets. The ambassador is the one getting chewed out.
In mid-November 2019, the Hong Kong police besieged democracy protesters at the Polytechnic University. It was a violent affair that included plenty of bricks, and a bow and arrow wielded by protesters. A British human rights activist who was observing was detained overnight, then released without charge.
Riot police detain a man as they clear protesters taking part in a rally against a new national security law in Hong Kong on the 23rd anniversary of the city’s handover from Britain to China on July 1, 2020. (Dale de la Rey/AFP via Getty Images)
In February 2021, the British government warned Britons, including those with dual Chinese citizenship, that they could no longer expect to receive consular assistance. In April, British authorities advised British detainees in Hong Kong about the possibility of transfer of legal cases to mainland courts, and trial without jury.
Regarding the most recent revelations, a British government spokesman told the Post, “Ongoing arrests under the national security law are being used as a pretext to silence opposition and attack Hong Kong’s rights and freedoms. We continue to raise our concerns about the law directly with the Hong Kong and Chinese governments.”
Unfortunately, the Hong Kong and Chinese governments are basically one and the same now. They don’t care what Britain has to say. They care what Britain, and its big ally the United States, does. Pretty soon they won’t care much about that either, because we won’t be able to do anything of importance. So as a first step, it’s time for the United States, European Union, and Britain to impose tough Magnitsky sanctions against all Hong Kong officials, and their families, who are responsible for human rights abuse against detainees.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.New York City firefighters salute in front of a memorial on the side of a firehouse adjacent to One World Trade Center and the 9/11 Memorial site during ceremonies on the 18th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York on Sept. 11, 2019. (Craig Ruttle/AP Photo)
9/11 Plus 20: Lessons Not Learned
How 19 Islamic terrorists entered the United States with 'relative ease'
Commentary
“When these attacks occur, as they likely will, we will wonder what more we could have done to stop them.”
That was National Counterterrorism Coordinator Richard Clarke, in a May 29, 2001 memo to National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice and her deputy Stephen Hadley. The statement, which warned that “hundreds” of Americans might be killed, may be found in “The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States,” published in 2004.
“It is perhaps obvious to state that terrorists cannot plan and carry out attacks in the United States if they are unable to enter the country.” That is from the introduction to “9/11 and Terrorist Travel: Staff Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.” This document was released separately from Commission report. As the staff report shows, by this time 20 years ago, the al Qaeda team “demonstrated the relative ease of obtaining a U.S. visa and gaining admission into the United States.”
The hijackers began to acquire U.S. visas in April 1999, two years and five months before the attack. Consular officers had no information about fraudulent travel stamps that are associated with al Qaeda, and were not trained in terrorist travel tactics.
Three hijackers were known as al Qaeda terrorists in early 2000, but their biographical information was not communicated to border authorities for watch listing at U.S. consulates and the border. The hijackers successfully entered the United States 33 of 34 times, with the first arriving on Jan. 15, 2000, at Los Angeles International Airport. All others entered through airports on the East Coast, including 11 entries through New York area airports and 12 through Florida airports.
The terrorists included 14 “muscle hijackers,” trained to gain entry to the cockpit and subdue passengers. Tourist visas guaranteed them six months of legal stay, more than enough for Sept. 11, 2001. The six-month tourist stays also assured the hijackers of sufficient time to obtain identification to board the planes on 9/11. Fourteen of 15 operatives, and all of the pilots, easily acquired one or multiple forms of U.S. state-issued identification.
The staff report charts terrorist operations such as the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. Terrorist Ramzi Yousef and Ahmad Ajaj traveled under aliases using fraudulent documents American officials failed to discover. The terrorists’ primary tool for remaining in the United States was “immigration fraud,” such as the “bogus political asylum stories” concocted by Ajaj and Yousef, mastermind of the 1993 operation. Others simply overstayed their visas.
Those visas were issued by the State Department, which in some cases speeded up the process and approved incomplete applications. The reasons for these visa policies in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Germany “have never been adequately explained” but as Terrorist Travel notes, “with its reputation as a friend of foreigners, State was an easy target.”
The Immigration and Naturalization Service had little contact with the intelligence community, so information on terrorists failed to reach the Border Patrol, which also lacked access to the terrorist watchlist. More than two years after 9/11, many immigration inspectors had never been interviewed by the FBI or DOJ and many remained unaware that they had admitted a hijacker.
Smoke pours from the twin towers of the World Trade Center after they were hit by two hijacked airliners in a terrorist attack in New York City on Sept. 11, 2001. (Robert Giroux/Getty Images)
Prior to 9/11, the Terrorist Travel report notes, “no agency of the U.S. government thought of border security as a tool in the counterterrorism arsenal.” Indeed, even after the 9/11 hijackers easily gained admission, “border security still is not considered a cornerstone of national security policy.” Commission staff believed “it must be made one,” but it wasn’t.
For years, Americans were told the nation harbored 11 million illegals, but according to scholars at Yale and MIT, the true number may exceed 22 million, more than the populations of Romania, 19,237,691; Chile, 19,116,201, and Sri Lanka, with 21,214,349 people. Those illegally present are called “undocumented.” But to remain in the United States requires the use of false documents, immigration fraud, and bogus political asylum stories—the same tactics deployed by the 9/11 terrorists.
The conventional wisdom in Washington is that the preferred destination for refugees, particularly from the Middle East, is the United States, rather than other countries in the region. Likewise, Central Americans are encouraged to come to the United States rather than Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia or even Cuba, which has a population of only 11,236,616.
Former President Donald Trump made some effort to tighten the border and deport violent criminal illegals. Those efforts are now being reversed by President Joe Biden, on record that illegals are “already Americans.” With the border and rule of law effectively canceled, the “migrants” stream in by the thousands, from countries all over the world. American officials cannot verify their true identity and have no clue of their intentions.
If legal immigrants and legitimate citizens have a problem with this policy, then it would be hard to blame them. The same goes for anyone who lost a father, mother, son, daughter or friend on Sept. 11, 2001.
Before 9/11, border security was not considered a cornerstone of national security. Nearly 20 years later it still isn’t, and the conditions that prevailed now exist on a wider scale. To paraphrase Richard Clarke, when these attacks occur, as they likely will, American officials will know why they failed to stop them.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A man crosses the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) logo in the lobby of CIA Headquarters in Langley, Va., on Aug. 14, 2008. (Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images)
Shouldn’t America’s Spies Already Know Where COVID Came From?
Commentary
President Biden has given the U.S. intelligence community 90 days to figure out where COVID-19 came from.
Really?
American taxpayers just might wonder what they are getting for their $80 billion that funds the nation’s mammoth intelligence bureaucracy each year.
Shouldn’t the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)—the crème-de-la-crème of the intelligence community—already know about COVID?
In fact, shouldn’t they have known in late 2019 when the virus first appeared?
That is the CIA’s job after all—to know what’s going on in China and what Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party leadership are thinking and doing.
Hopefully, the CIA prioritizes China over, say, Slovenia.
Perhaps the CIA is just not very good at spying. And that is its principal duty: to obtain secrets by persuading foreigners to betray their countries or organizations for America’s interests.
Yes, this isn’t always easy. Nonetheless, it is what the CIA is supposed to do.
One does hear it argued—or better said, used as an excuse—that China is a “hard target.” And it is. China’s Ministry of State Security’s successes in rolling up CIA Chinese agent networks in recent times have been colossal intelligence disasters.
But being “hard” is a poor excuse. The intelligence targets most important to the United States are usually the most difficult. Imagine an airline pilot suggesting he should not be expected to land in a 30-knot crosswind because it would be hard.
Some nationalities are recruitable by the dozen in an afternoon, with a decent lunch and a little money. Russians and Islamic terrorists? Not so easy. Chinese? Not easy but not impossible.
Operating inside China is tough. But Chinese do travel overseas. And in dictatorships, like China, one’s position and even life can be precarious. Indeed, many Chinese of means and power are looking for overseas bolt-holes and places to stash their wealth and their relatives.
A person walks past the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco, Calif., on July 23, 2020. (Philip Pacheco/AFP via Getty Images)
These are cracks for CIA officers to exploit. It takes patience and effort.
But if promotion in the agency’s Directorate of Operations (which does most of the recruiting) is still based on “scalps”—regardless of whose head they come off—guess which targets get the attention? The easy ones.
And a little… ahem… deception to jump-start a career isn’t unheard of. One recipient of the agency’s top case officer award offered sage advice—with a straight face—that “You should go to an agent meeting with the intelligence already written,” and “It’s okay to write what an agent would have said.”
In other words: make it up… or in plainer English… lie.
As for fake recruitments, there probably isn’t a current or former CIA case officer alive who can’t rattle off a few examples.
Another problem with the China target (and other hard ones) is language. Learning Chinese takes time and that’s “dead time” the way promotion boards look at it. Best to head off to Africa and rack up some easy scalps.
Adding to the spying challenge, after 9/11 the CIA got into paramilitary operations big time. That’s a lot easier than pursuing and convincing “hard targets” to give you information.
Paramilitary work is also a lot of fun—like being in the military, but without most of the rules and you only do the fun stuff. No parades, no inspections, no PowerPoint torture, and no seminars on sexual harassment and “woke” re-education sessions.
Paramilitary operations have their uses, but they are not the CIA’s core purpose.
And one suspects the CIA relies excessively on “liaison services.” That’s dumbing things down. Instead of gathering intelligence on your own, you let the local intelligence services do the work for you.
It’s easier and eliminates the risk of being caught spying in another country (a risk that’s part of the intelligence game and always has been).
But you’re also a supplicant, dependent on foreign intelligence services. You’ll only know what they know—and of that, only what they tell you. And their interests are not always America’s interests.
One also marvels that nobody seems to notice or at least do much about all this.
Congress has oversight responsibility for the CIA. But as one CIA officer commented a while back, there is little to worry about from Capitol Hill: “Tell them some stories, give them a little show-and-tell, and they think they’re dealing with Mr. Bond himself.”
And it didn’t help when the then-director of national intelligence, Lieutenant General James Clapper, who became one of President Trump’s fiercest critics, in 2013 delivered what he later called a “clearly erroneous” if “least untruthful” answer to the Senate Intelligence Committee when testifying about government surveillance of U.S. citizens.
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper (L) and CIA Director John Brennan chat before testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Feb. 9, 2016. (Molly Riley/AFP/Getty Images)
This doesn’t exactly make a citizen brim with confidence in the intelligence community’s ruling class or in the U.S. Air Force’s three-star generals.
And it’s not just Clapper. Take one former CIA director and another former acting director on whose watches the CIA missed the rise of ISIS, for starters. Both were analysts—and sub-par ones at that. They were not case officers out in the field trying to recruit and obtain intelligence. Of course, there is no shortage of sub-par case officers either.
So how did they get to the top?
It’s depressing, but both were creatures of a CIA culture—most prevalent at, but not confined to, headquarters—where sycophancy, laissez-faire backstabbing, and smoke-and-mirrors achievement are better for one’s career than producing intelligence on America’s most dangerous enemies.
As for the current Director of National Intelligence—now running the whole show—she’s a former CIA employee but with a stunning lack of experience, and zero on the “operational end.”
Not surprisingly the good officers, of whom there are still some and who could get things on track, go to great lengths to avoid headquarters assignments. There’s also no possible way they would be selected to the top positions and threaten what is a juicy employment racket.
In fairness, the CIA presumably is doing some useful work collecting information “the old fashioned way.” And the agency rightly doesn’t publicize it.
But when the question of where the coronavirus came from and what the Chinese leadership knew is still a mystery to the CIA (and the rest of the intelligence community)—one marvels at such majestic incompetence.
And none of the GS-15’s, SES’s, and SIS’s running the show seem the least bit embarrassed that when their country most needed them, they failed.
One doubts U.S. intelligence can be fixed without a flamethrower.
Grant Newsham is a retired U.S. Marine officer and a former U.S. diplomat and business executive who lived and worked for many years in the Asia/Pacific region. He served as a reserve head of intelligence for Marine Forces Pacific, and was the U.S. Marine attaché, U.S. Embassy Tokyo on two occasions. He is a senior fellow with the Center for Security Policy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A U.S. flag with 15 stripes and 15 stars, like the one that was flown Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, frames the Battle Monument in Baltimore, Maryland, on Sept. 12, 2014. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Our Vice President Ignores Memorial Day, as Our National Identity Needs Shoring Up
Commentary
“Enjoy the long weekend.”
Thus spake Kamala Harris, vice president of the United States, on the run-up to Memorial Day 2021.
As many commentators pointed out, you wouldn’t know that she had Memorial Day in mind, because her tweet didn’t mention the name of the holiday. For her, it was just another long weekend, another opportunity for the sheep to graze unherded for an extra day while waiting to be shorn.
Doubtless, she is kicking herself, or at any rate, the aide who suggested she issue the tweet—not, of course, because of the omission but because of the minor PR blowback it occasioned.
The sheep may be docile but they are also touchy and unpredictable.
Probably no one Harris consorts with ever gives Memorial Day a second thought.
Why should they? It’s a holiday that commemorates something they despise—many things, in fact: the spirit of personal sacrifice and duty, on the one hand, and the country for which those exertions were expended, on the other.
I am confident that this slight disturbance in The Narrative will be quickly digested, papered over, and forgotten by the compliant media machine that surrounds and protects our nomenklatura.
Harris gave that project a little nudge a day or two later when, noting the unhappiness, she issued a compensatory tweet that did mention the holiday.
That snuffling noise you hear is the sound of cynics reacting to her second tweet.
In any event, the fracas did put me in mind of a family outing to Maryland over Memorial Day weekend several years ago.
Fort McHenry
Together with my wife and 5-year-old son, I stopped at Baltimore Harbor to see Fort McHenry, the site, in September 1814, of the Battle of Baltimore, a decisive episode in the War of 1812.
It was a glorious spring day: the sky was an infinite azure punctuated by a flotilla of stately white clouds.
Our first stop was a modern outbuilding adjacent to the 18th-century fort. We crowded into a small theater with about 30 fourth-graders and their teachers to watch a short film.
Among other things, we learned about the origins of the war, about how the British took and burned Washington, about how at last 1,000 U.S. troops under George Armistead at Fort McHenry successfully defended their bastion against the British naval onslaught, saving Baltimore and turning the tide of the war.
It was (as the Duke of Wellington said of Waterloo) “the nearest run thing you ever saw.”
The British ships, anchored out of range of Armistead’s cannons, pounded the fort with mortar and Congreve rocket fire over the course of 25 hours.
Sitting on a truce ship behind the British fleet was a young American lawyer and amateur poet named Francis Scott Key. He watched as the battle raged, dappling the night sky with noisy coruscations.
Sometime before sunrise, the bombardment suddenly stopped. Key was uncertain of the battle’s outcome until dawn broke and he saw the American flag fluttering boldly above Fort McHenry. (When he had taken command, Armistead asked for an extra-large flag so that “the British would have no trouble seeing it from a distance.”)
There would be no surrender.
The Brits abandoned their plans to invade Baltimore. The war would soon be over.
As soon as he caught sight of Old Glory, Key began scribbling what would become “The Star-Spangled Banner” on the back of a letter. He finished it in a hotel in Baltimore a day or two later.
The poem was an instant hit and was soon set to “The Anacreontic Song,” an 18th-century English drinking tune. It became the official national anthem in 1931.
The film ended and strains of the song began floating out from the loudspeakers—softly at first, then louder and louder. Everyone in the room scrambled to his feet.
“O say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave
O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave”
The schoolchildren stood reverently, each with his right hand over his heart. A floor-length curtain wheeled back, flooding the room with light.
There was Fort McHenry. And there, rising above it, was the American flag, waving gently in the breeze. With the possible exception of our son, who was busy attacking The Enemy with his toy F14, there wasn’t a dry eye in the house.
American Identity
Of course, that calculated piece of theater was in part an exercise in sentimentality. Is that a bad thing? Wallace Stevens may have been right that, in general, “sentimentality is a failure of feeling”—a sign of counterfeit emotion rather than the real thing.
Nevertheless, there is a place for a bit of affirmative sentimentality in the moral economy of our society.
Among other things, it provides emotional glue for our shared identity as Americans.
These days, perhaps more than ever before, that identity needs glue. As we contemplate the prospects for America and its institutions in the 21st century, it isn’t only particular cultural and social institutions that deserve scrutiny.
What we might call the institution of American identity—of who we are as a people—also requires our attention.
It’s often said that the terrorist attacks of 9/11 precipitated a new resolve throughout the nation.
There is some truth to that.
Certainly, the extraordinary bravery of the firefighters and other rescue personnel in New York and Washington provided an invigorating spectacle—as did Todd “Let’s Roll” Beamer and his fellow passengers on United Airlines Flight 93.
Having learned from their cellphones what had happened at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, they rushed and overpowered the terrorists who had hijacked their plane.
As a result, the plane crashed on a remote Pennsylvania farm instead of on Pennsylvania Avenue. Who knows how many lives their sacrifice saved?
The widespread sense of condign outrage—of horror leavened by anger and elevated by resolve—testified to a renewed sense of national purpose and identity after 9/11.
Attacked, many Americans suddenly (if temporarily) rediscovered the virtue of patriotism. At the beginning of his remarkable book “Who Are We? The Challenges to America’s National Identity,” the late Samuel Huntington tells about a certain block on Charles Street in Boston.
At one time, American flags flew in front of a U.S. post office and a liquor store.
At some point, the post office stopped displaying the flag, so on Sept. 11, 2001, the flag flew only in front of the liquor store.
Within two weeks, 17 American flags decorated that block of Charles Street, in addition to a huge flag suspended over the street close by.
“With their country under attack,” Huntington notes, “Charles Street denizens rediscovered their nation and identified themselves with it.”
Was that rediscovery anything more than a momentary passion? Huntington reports that within a few months, the flags on Charles Street began to disappear. By the time the first anniversary rolled around in September 2002, only four were left flying.
True, that is four times more than were there on Sept. 10, 2001, but it’s less than a quarter of the number that populated Charles Street at the end of September 2001.
There are similar anecdotes from around the country—an excess of flag-waving followed by a relapse into indifference.
Does it mean that the sudden upsurge of patriotism in the weeks following 9/11 was only, as it were, skin-deep?
Or perhaps it merely testifies to the fact that a sense of permanent emergency is difficult to maintain, especially in the absence of fresh attacks?
Is our sense of ourselves as Americans potent only when challenged?
“Does it,” Huntington asks, “take an Osama bin Laden … to make us realize that we are Americans? If we do not experience recurring destructive attacks, will we return to the fragmentation and eroded Americanism before September 11?”
One hopes that the answer is no.
Cultural Dissolution
I am writing on Memorial Day 2021, just a few months before the 20th anniversary of 9/11.
The behavior of those school children at Fort McHenry—behavior that was, I am happy to report, quietly encouraged by their teachers—suggests that the answer cannot simply be no.
But I fear that for every schoolchild standing at attention for the National Anthem, there is a teacher or lawyer or judge or politician, a Black Lives Matter spokesman, ACLU employee, or critical race theorist militating against the “hegemony of the dominant culture,” the insupportable intrusion of white, Christian, “Eurocentric” values into the curriculum, the school pageant, the town green, etc., etc.
The demonstration of national character and resolve following Sept. 11 was extraordinary.
It didn’t, however, purchase immunity from the virus of cultural dissolution advanced by an elite more taken with the woke imperatives of the 1619 Project—now incorporated in the curricula of some 4,500 schools—than lessons of 1776.
The sobering truth is that the display of national heroism and resolve following 9/11 has had little if any effect on the forces behind the fragmentation and “eroded Americanism” to which Huntington refers.
Those forces aren’t isolated phenomena; they aren’t even confined to America.
On the contrary, they are part of a global crisis in national identity, coefficients of the sudden collapse of self-confidence in the West—a collapse that shows itself in everything from swiftly falling birthrates to the attack on the whole idea of the sovereign nation-state.
It’s hard to avoid thinking that a people that has lost the will to reproduce or govern itself is a people on the road to destruction.
Which is one of many reasons we should look askance at the vice president of the United States telling us to “enjoy the long weekend” when she should have paid some homage to the men and women whose sacrifice made her little bubble of affluent privilege possible.
Roger Kimball is the editor and publisher of The New Criterion and publisher of Encounter Books. His most recent book is “Who Rules? Sovereignty, Nationalism, and the Fate of Freedom in the 21st Century.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Government Must Release All Records of Pandemic Response Spending
Pork barrel spending in pandemic response means more oversight should have been built into Bill C-13
Commentary
The COVID-19 Emergency Response Act was created in order for the government to be able to move quickly in response to the unfolding crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bill C-13 was introduced in Parliament on March 24, 2020, and received royal assent the very next day. Opposition and government members worked together in a rare display of unity to bring the bill into force. A process that usually takes months was done in a few days.
But with documents now coming to light that demonstrate some very questionable government expenditures under the guise of pandemic response, it appears that the opposition parties should have pressured for more oversight measures within the bill before giving it such quick approval.
It is understandable why the Liberal government sought the authority and ability to move quickly with spending measures in response to the pandemic. We were in the early stages of an unfolding and unprecedented emergency. There simply wasn’t time for extended parliamentary debates on every government action that may be required as issues developed. We didn’t know how long outbreaks would last, how seriously they would impact business and health care facilities, or how much government response would be required in order to address situations.
It is easy to see why the opposition parties did not want to appear as if they were hindering government efforts to provide pandemic relief. The nation was gripped with fear as a pandemic swept the world in a way unseen in generations. Citizens would not have responded favourably if it appeared that opposition parties were playing political games and obstructing any measures that would aid people and businesses during this crisis. Opposition party leaders were in a tough position, and they chose to pass Bill C-13 with virtually no scrutiny. In hindsight, this may have been a poor choice on their part.
Whenever there is a crisis, opportunists spring out of the woodwork in hopes of taking advantage of it. The COVID-19 pandemic is proving to be no exception to this rule. Members of Parliament issued a House order last October demanding the release of over a million records related to pandemic spending. To date, only less than 1 percent—8,000—of these records have been disclosed, and within them there is evidence of rampant mismanagement and questionable lobbying efforts. Just imagine what is hiding within the 992,000 or so remaining documents.
There was an utter feeding frenzy of lobbying for government contracts as over $600 billion was borrowed and disbursed by the government with little to no oversight thanks to the emergency powers that had been granted.
According to Blacklock’s Reporter, which broke the story, there were countless sole-sourced contracts with advance payments made. One former Liberal MP was part of a consortium of companies that got a $237 million contract for ventilators that were unapproved at the time and ended up each costing about $10,000 more than the original U.S. model on which they were based. A lobbyist won a $118 million contract for a client after boasting of “getting things done.” A Liberal Party-connected lobbyist contacted the cabinet seeking a contract for his son. The examples are numerous and galling.
The need for speed with the government does not have to preclude the need for oversight. Surely some of the larger contracts issued could have been subjected to some cursory examination by an all-party committee before they were issued. Opposition MPs demonstrated that they were willing and able to work co-operatively with the government in light of the emergency. They could have done so in an oversight committee just as well as they did in Parliament when they gave the government sweeping spending powers.
In a period of crisis, it is vital that a government be held more accountable in its actions, not less. Opposition parties were derelict in their role to provide constructive critique to the government, as they chose to give the government a pass on spending rather than risk losing political points with the electorate. Sometimes making the right choice is more important than making the best political choice, and that applies more than ever during an emergency.
There is no getting the toothpaste back into the tube now. All that opposition parties can do is continue to pressure the government to release its records of spending and to work on holding the government accountable after the fact. In light of what little we have seen, it is a pretty safe bet that some bombshells still await within the hundreds of thousands of records that are being withheld by the Privy Council Office.
What we can do though is to learn from this. While this pandemic appears to be winding down, we can be assured that one day, the world will face a sweeping crisis of some sort again. Not only should emergency plans be created with a swift reaction to a crisis in mind, but they should also have accountability measures built into them.
We also need to ensure that every possible dollar spent goes toward the actual crisis rather than into the pockets of unprincipled contractors and lobbyists. This is a mistake that we must never repeat.
Cory Morgan is a columnist and business owner based in Calgary.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.China Is Destroying America’s PPE Industry: Subsidies, Tariffs Would Protect It for the Next Emergency
Commentary
China is destroying America’s fledgling personal protective equipment (PPE) industry. The industry, which produces American-made masks and gowns, is being driven out of business by China’s exports, priced below the cost of production even in China, according to an American manufacturing group.
That aggressive international trade tactic, called dumping, is illegal per WTO rules yet the Biden administration is allowing it to undermine an industry that we should be protecting as strategic and necessary for the next emergency, whether it be another pandemic or a war. America should never again allow itself to be dependent upon China for its PPE, because it is acting as an enemy of America, not a friend. To protect our PPE industry requires subsidies of American manufacturers, tariffs against cheap Chinese products, or most likely both.
The New York Times on May 29 published a major report on America’s PPE industry in decline because of China’s aggressive dumping of cheap PPE. It’s likely a purposeful strategy by Beijing, which wants to keep America dependent on China for life-saving medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. If America is dependent upon China, China’s path to global hegemony will be easier.
As mask mandates ease, two dozen American companies that started producing masks during the pandemic-induced supply shortages last year are facing a drop in demand just as a glut of cheap supply from China floods the American market. Some of China’s PPE exports to the United States are priced at just 7 percent of the going rate from American factories. So, the American factories can’t sell their products and are being forced to lay off skilled workers.
A worker produces test kits for COVID-19 in Nantong in China’s eastern Jiangsu Province on March 9, 2020. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
At least three American PPE companies stopped producing medical masks and gowns in recent weeks. Others decreased production. Premium PPE in Virginia “laid off most of its 280 workers,” according to the Times. Co-owner of the company Brent Dillie told the paper, “Six months from now, many of us won’t be around and that won’t be good for America the next time there’s a national health emergency.”
The Biden administration should step up with subsidies to help American PPE companies retain or rehire its recently fired workers. It should also gradually increase tariffs on Chinese PPE companies to whatever is needed, say 1,500 percent, in order to ensure that Americans purchase their PPE from reliable suppliers who will be there for us in the next emergency.
Given that the United States and Canada had a spat over PPE during the pandemic, and European countries like Italy, Britain, and Ireland had spats over PPE and vaccine supplies, America should rely on nobody but ourselves for PPE and other life-saving material that will be scarce during the next global emergency. America is a big enough economy, and we need the jobs, so there is no reason, other than a few pennies per item, not to use stimulus economics to subsidize and protect American PPE manufacturers.
After all, the Biden administration has supposedly prioritized the shoring up of American manufacturing, and ensuring that medical workers never again have to scramble for PPE. So, President Joe Biden should put his money where his mouth is. His current policies to help America’s PPE manufacturers, including pressure for federal procurement of domestic supplies and the introduction of start-ups to hospital distributors, are not enough. Neither are mere plans to add billions of dollars worth of PPE to the Strategic National Stockpile at some unknown point in the future.
Senator Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) planned to file the Medical Supplies for Pandemics Act as an amendment to the upcoming $100 billion U.S. Innovation and Competition Act meant to bolster American competitiveness against China. That would be a good start, at least on the subsidy side.
“When the COVID-19 outbreak began last year, the Chinese government’s effort to cover up the severity while stockpiling critical medical supplies hindered the United States’ ability to respond to the pandemic and made clear that our country is far too reliant on foreign nations to deal with future pandemics,” said Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), the bill’s cosponsor, in a statement. The Act would authorize $500 million annually to incentivize domestic manufacturing of medical supplies.
But these future plans are not hitting hard and fast enough to save our PPE companies. Twenty-seven members of the American Mask Manufacturers Association have already laid off about fifty-percent of their workers. “Without concerted action from Washington,” according to the Times, “most of those companies will go belly up within the next two months.”
Industrial firm employees manufacture Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), like face shields, to supply New York’s health care workers and hospitals at the Brooklyn Navy Yard as New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio visits in New York City on March 26, 2020. (Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images)
Lloyd Armbrust, the CEO of a Texan mask-making company, told the Times, “We need the government’s support right now because unfair pressure from China is going to kill this new industry before the legislators even get a chance to fix the problem.”
Luis Arguello Jr, a vice president at DemeTech, which makes medical sutures in Florida, said to the paper, “This is full-on economic warfare. … China is on the mission to make sure no one in the industry survives, and so far they’re winning.”
The Biden administration is currently failing these manufacturing heroes of the pandemic. A U.S. Commerce Department spokesman declined to comment to the Times on whether “it would support an anticompetitive complaint against China” at the World Trade Organization. Instead he repeated the same old one-size-fits-all free-trade mantra that got us into the problem in the first place. The agency, wrote the spokesperson flatly, “continues to monitor market trends closely and assess options to ensure American manufacturers are competing on a level playing field.”
America’s pea-counter economists want to save a few pennies per mask after almost 600,000 U.S. deaths from COVID-19. I have news for the pea-counters: we are no longer playing a game with China. It’s a war. We need to protect our medical industry, not just throw them to China’s manufacturing wolves on a “level playing field.”
Experts say that PPE shortages during the pandemic likely explain some of the high infection rates of frontline heroes. More than 3,600 such frontline workers died from COVID-19 in 2020 alone. American masks that use domestic material cost 10 or 15 cents compared with some Chinese masks that go for 1 cent a piece. It should be worth at least 14 cents per mask to keep our American medical supply chain intact for the next emergency. The Biden administration better get smart on this, and quickly.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Security personnel stand guard outside the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan as members of the World Health Organization (WHO) team investigating the origins of COVID-19 make a visit to the institute in Wuhan, China, on Feb. 3, 2021. (Hector Retamal /AFP via Getty Images)
Biden’s Wuhan Cover-Up
Commentary
Reeling from the revelation that the Biden administration shut down a State Department investigation into the origins of COVID-19, the Biden team is now trying to cover up their cover-up. Let’s examine what they were covering up in the first place, why it matters, and how the administration is now pretending to take action while not actually doing anything.
Late last year, the Trump administration, under the supervision of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, began a State Department probe into how COVID-19 got unleashed into the world, causing a global pandemic with millions of deaths and ruined economies and lives in its wake.
The investigation sought to determine whether COVID-19 came from the Wuhan meat market, as originally reported, or the Wuhan virology lab that operates under the control of the Chinese Communist Party. As we now know, this is a legitimate inquiry and an open question.
Unknown to the American public, and indeed to people around the world, it turns out that the Wuhan virologists, in collaboration with virologists from the United States and other countries, were all doing so-called “gain of function” research. In plain language, this means creating deadly viruses, or more precisely, taking deadly viruses and making them more contagious and more lethal in the lab.
Isn’t it incredible that we’re just now, more than a year into the global epidemic, finding out about this? Imagine the level of deception from the scientific community, not to mention the U.S. government and the media, that’s necessary to keep the public in the dark about something so chillingly relevant to their lives. Digital media literally banned and censored people for even hinting that COVID-19 might be a virus from a lab, branding such views “debunked” and “conspiracy theories.”
The Pompeo investigation, however, went beyond the question of where the virus came from. It was also aimed at examining a second, no less chilling, question: Did the communist Chinese regime deliberately release COVID-19 as a biological weapon? To begin to answer this question, Pompeo’s team was searching for evidence of collaboration between China’s biological weapons program and the virologists at Wuhan.
Now, consider the importance of these inquiries and also their implications. How would the U.S. government and the world respond if it turned out that COVID-19 was indeed used as a biological weapon? The Chinese regime certainly had the opportunity. It also had a possible motive, to bring down Donald Trump in particular and the U.S. economy in general, and to improve China’s relative position in the world. Finally, who can doubt that the Chinese Communist Party is unscrupulous enough to be willing to do something so heinous?
Yet this is precisely the investigation that the Biden team secretly terminated. Their rationale was that Trump’s investigation was biased, it reinforced what Trump himself said about the origins of the virus, and it cherry-picked facts to support a preconceived theory. Since we don’t know what the Pompeo team found, it’s impossible to evaluate these accusations.
What we do know, however, is that the Biden team has its own preconceptions. Biden himself is compromised by his family’s highly lucrative business dealings in China. The Biden family has benefited from deals valued at billions of dollars, and Hunter Biden’s alleged laptop contains the clear suggestion that the “big man”—Biden himself—was getting a share. While it goes too far to say Biden is owned by China, it’s hardly an exaggeration to suggest that he’s financially obligated to China.
So it’s hardly a surprise that Biden seeks to protect the Chinese regime from its responsibility—whether direct or indirect—for COVID-19. However, under fierce pressure from the disclosure of the cover-up, the Biden administration is now feigning a renewed investigative inquiry. Biden says he has asked the U.S. intelligence community to “redouble their efforts” to find out where exactly the virus came from.
Yet when pressed to say what he would do to force the Chinese regime to provide access and data that it has long denied investigators, the Biden team basically said that their man would do nothing. Rather, he was hoping the World Health Organization, the very institution whose efforts have been controlled and rebuffed by Chinese authorities, would come up with something new.
The bottom line is that the Biden administration seems to have no genuine interest in forcing the issue. They seem more determined to have a thorough investigation of Jan. 6—which is completely unnecessary, since we know what happened on that day—than they do to thoroughly investigate an urgent matter of global health and U.S. national security.
Even if, by some miracle, the truth came out, and it turned out China was directly responsible, what would Biden do? I’m pretty convinced the answer is nothing. How exposed, how vulnerable, how unsafe we all are in the hands of this administration.
Dinesh D’Souza is an author, filmmaker, and daily host of the Dinesh D’Souza podcast.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A Wall Street sign hangs at the New York Stock Exchange at Wall Street in New York on March 23, 2021. (Angela Weiss/AFP via Getty Images)
Wall Street Has Officially Thrown In Its Lot With Beijing
Beijing opens up wealth management, the final frontier for Wall Street in China
Commentary
Despite tensions between Beijing and Washington increasing over the past five years, Wall Street firms have steadily increased their business footprint in China while carefully navigating the political whirlwinds.
But recent events involving two of the most important firms on Wall Street signal that the industry is resolute in making China its most important growth market.
In other words, the die has been cast and there is no turning back.
On May 25, New York-based investment bank Goldman Sachs won approval from Beijing regulators for a 51 percent ownership stake in a wealth management joint venture with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), one of China’s biggest commercial banks.
Also in May, BlackRock—the world’s largest asset manager with almost $9 trillion in assets—received approval to set up a wealth management business, of which it will own 50.1 percent, along with its partners China Construction Bank and Temasek, Singapore’s sovereign fund.
The moves follow earlier announcements by European asset managers Amundi and Schroders, which won approval for Chinese domestic partnerships last year with Bank of China and Bank of Communications. In March, JPMorgan Chase obtained a minority stake in a China Merchants Bank wealth management subsidiary.
While Goldman Sachs and BlackRock aren’t the first movers, their latest expansion into China is the most important. Goldman Sachs is perhaps the most preeminent Wall Street investment bank, and its foothold in China’s wealth management sector is sure to attract followers. BlackRock, whose chief executive, Larry Fink, has been bullish on China for years, is considered an innovator among traditional asset managers.
A common thread among these partnerships is wealth management. It’s the final (and potentially most lucrative) frontier for Wall Street in China.
How so? Wall Street firms have walked a long road to gain traction in China. Over the past decade, Beijing has slowly opened its financial markets to the West by first allowing foreign capital to invest in its onshore markets and participate in gains (and losses), and more recently allowing majority-owned onshore subsidiaries.
China only recently allowed majority foreign ownership of domestic investment banks and brokerage firms, granting Wall Street a cut of the fees arising from underwriting new stocks and bonds. And in late May, China’s central bank raised the limit on how much small lenders and foreign banks operating in China can borrow offshore (e.g., in dollars), which increases the ability of foreign banks to further expand within China.
But Beijing’s loosening of the wealth management industry is a game-changer. China is a nation of savers. China’s wave of nouveau riche has a pile of cash to invest. And China’s wealth management market largely depends on retail and digital distribution. Wall Street firms’ Chinese partners would presumably help with the sales and distribution channels.
It gives Wall Street a potentially massive revenue source—earning fees from managing the assets of its large population and growing middle class. In other words, this allows Wall Street to make money off Chinese retail customers. And unlike investment banking fees, these asset management fees are a more stable and recurring source of revenue.
Potential Conflicts
As with any firm operating in China, there are heightened governmental and regulatory risks. And these risks are even greater in the financial industry, where regulatory compliance is so critical to the execution of strategy. Even Chinese firms could be severely punished if they cross Beijing authorities, evidenced by fintech giant Ant Group’s sudden cancellation of its initial public offering late last year.
Wall Street could be put into conflict between China and the United States, especially as their operations in the world’s No. 2 economy have become a sizable portion of their business. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) could hold powerful influence over Wall Street if relations between the United States and China continue to deteriorate. Wall Street’s powerful lobbies in Washington could be mobilized to indirectly aid China’s interests if the Wall Street firms’ Chinese businesses are sufficiently threatened.
Over the past few months, fashion and apparel conglomerates that discontinued use of Xinjiang cotton due to mistreatment of the Uyghur ethnic group were publicly reprimanded by China and Chinese consumers on social media, impacting their Chinese sales revenues. Also in late May, actor and former professional wrestler John Cena issued a public apology to China after he called Taiwan a country in a previous interview with Taiwanese journalists. His comments, which were widely criticized in China, could negatively affect box office sales of the upcoming Universal Pictures film “Fast & Furious 9.”
These incidents, while unrelated to the financial services industry, are examples of the ongoing conflicts that foreign companies face while operating in China. For example, Beijing could induce Chinese customers to pull assets from foreign wealth managers if the parent company executives act in a way that’s perceived to be “offensive” to the CCP.
There’s another longer-term risk to the United States. Given the pipeline of Wall Street executives who eventually hold high-level positions in the U.S. government after they leave their posts, the years of collaboration with China and the CCP could indirectly influence their later political decision-making.
In particular, Goldman Sachs has a long list of alumni who later worked in government, including former Treasury Secretaries Hank Paulson and Steven Mnuchin, former Trump economic adviser Gary Cohn, former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine, and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Martin Luther King addresses crowds during the March on Washington at the Lincoln Memorial, where he gave his “I Have A Dream” speech in Washington on Aug. 28, 1963. (Central Press/Getty Images)
Critical Race Theory, From a Gen Z Perspective
Commentary
You might wonder why you should care about what a college kid has to say on just about any topic. I don’t blame you. But, on the topic of critical race theory, I would argue we’re uniquely qualified to give our two cents.
I’m an older member of Generation Z. My childhood was not blemished by this newfangled pseudo-philosophy. I thankfully can remember a time when Martin Luther King’s mission was celebrated and upheld in my schooling. But I also was thrust into the critical race theory worldview early in my high school career.
My sub-generation—those of us around college age today—teetered uniquely on the cusp of the explosion of this neo-racist theory. As such, we may be the only ones able to remember a time without it but also know what it means to be steeped in this perverse worldview.
My first recognizable experience with critical race theory came when I was a freshman in high school. In celebration of Martin Luther King Day, we congregated in the auditorium for lectures and activities.
I always approached this day with particular reverence. I was taught its value as a child. It’s a day to recognize common humanity and celebrate our country’s progress toward justice. But that year, my experience was entirely different.
After an introductory speech, the entire student body was told to report to a specific room or building based on their racial identity, systematically segregating students throughout campus.
In doing so, the leaders of the event chose to promote the impression that only those in the same racial category are able to relate to the feelings and experiences of one another. As such, they suggested that conversations about race are better segregated than community-based—ironically on Martin Luther King Day.
I was only 14 years old at the time. It would be years before I even heard the term critical race theory. But, nonetheless, I knew then and there that I dissented. Ever since then, I have watched different iterations of this philosophy creep into my education, impacting the broader culture and mindset of my contemporaries.
Identity politics have exploded on my college campus, the natural byproduct of this misguided neo-racist education we’re steeped in. Generation Z has been divided and told to view one another through the lens of color and difference, and we have done exactly that.
As a believer in Martin Luther King’s authentic mission and cause, this worries me in a truly visceral way. As a culture, we’re willingly turning our backs on the values that promote inclusivity.
I worry, in particular, for the children younger than I am who have never known any different—who can’t recall a time before their immutable characteristics were deemed their defining attributes.
Activist teachers and administrators have hijacked the parental responsibility of activating children and shaping their senses and selves and their general worldview. And, when all authorities seem to bow down to this new ideology, it’s no wonder impressionable young people are swept up in it.
Though such true supporters of critical race theory may be few in number, they’re a powerful minority. Through cancel culture and reputation destruction, their threats of intimidation and slander render them able to shut down most all opposition.
But I have hope, too. There has been a tidal wave of awareness surrounding critical race theory in very recent times. I’d be willing to bet that most people, like myself, didn’t even know the term mere months ago. Nonetheless, it now dominates the national dialogue.
We’re acutely aware of its denigrating effect on society and the wellbeing of our future generations. Parents, teachers, politicians, and activists alike have joined forces to fight this newfangled take on race relations. Even whole organizations have sprung up in opposition.
This is what fills me with optimism, despite the severity of the situation. It’s my hope that more members of my generation, who are uniquely situated in their perspective, will come forward, too. We have been a silent majority. Now we’re making ourselves heard.
Rikki Schlott is a writer and student based in New York. As a young free speech activist, her writing chronicles the rise of illiberalism from a Generation Z perspective. Schlott also works for The Megyn Kelly Show and has been published by The Daily Wire and The Conservative Review.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Do You Have His Medals?
Commentary
He was six-foot-four-inches tall. Born May 11, 1919, in Houston, Texas, Harold Johnson would have been a giant among the English during World War II. This American war hero gave his medals to a little boy who sat next to him on a train on the first leg of his journey home from England. He completed 40 missions navigating B-24 bombers over Germany and France. That was the ticket home for U.S. Army Air Corps flyers. He died in a tragic road accident on June 11, 1951, leaving his wife and three young daughters without their father. His now grown children would like to find that little English boy.
To learn more about her father’s war service, Mary Lou Johnson Ridinger recently toured the 390th Memorial Museum in Tucson, Arizona. Mary Lou and her late husband Jay George Ridinger rediscovered Mayan jade in the jungles of Guatemala 40 years ago. Tall, blonde, and Texan Mary Lou makes the same impression on diminutive Guatemalans her father must have made on the English decades before.
Mary Lou described how the Johnsons got to Texas, saying great-grandfather Peter Johnson emigrated from Denmark in 1870. He landed in Galveston. That was the port of entry for Danish ships.
“There were a lot of Danish immigrants in Texas. Towns had newspapers printed in Danish and Norwegian. Great-grandfather likely was a farmer. Grandfather Fred Johnson was a Houston city slicker who married Florence Smith from Texas. I have a feeling my grandmother invented her own first name, Florence, Florence Smith. Smith is the most common name in America, Smith and Johnson,” Mary Lou reminisced. Although she lost her father when she was only a young girl, Mary Lou has vivid memories of her dad after he returned from the war.
The family moved to New Mexico when Mary Lou was 2 years old. Mary Lou remembers that her father took them out hunting Indian artifacts. They lived in Albuquerque. The family had an old Spanish ranch near Pecos, New Mexico. “We were only there May through September because of the snow,” Mary Lou explained, the family tale warmed with memories of her father.
“I got to sit on the front fender of the car to open gates. I fell off once. I was about four, four-and-a-half. It was a rich fantasy life for me and my sister Georgie. There was Cow Creek. We had Treasure Island. The water was only one-foot deep but we were sure we were explorers. We’d go to Lookout Point or Treasure Island. The ranch had five cabins. My sister and I have a lot of fond memories.”
Top-Left: Lt. Harold Johnson stands with Air Corps friends. Center-Left: Lt. Johnson during World War II. Bottom-Left: Lt. Johnson (C) stands with friends in November 1942. Top-Right: Lt. Johnson (L) in North Africa in 1943. Bottom-Right: Lt. Johnson (Front-Center) is seen in Norwich, England, in 1944. (Courtesy of Mary Lou Ridinger)
For Mary Lou and her sister Georgeann, called Georgie, their memories of dad ended too soon. Their little sister Christina was only 1 ¾ years old when their father was killed in a tragic automobile crash.
“Dad taught me how to ride a bike about a week before he died. We lived in Albuquerque. My sister and I had a room in the attic of the farm. Dad read to us every night. Dad went to law school. He got his law degree one-week before he died. He was 31 years old.”
Every family has memories. Cherished moments that remain. Pictures that linger. Thoughts that seem long forgotten that go away then return at odd times and in different ways. After his return from service, Harold Johnson studied law at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. He would sit in a big wing chair. Mary Lou and her sister Georgie perched on the wings of the chair above his head. They brushed his hair while he studied.
Johnson had to quit the University of Texas to enlist for military service in the fall of 1942. He was in flight training when he married on Feb. 12, 1943. After the ceremony, the 23-year-old cadet got on a train to return to flight training in Tucson with the U.S. Army Air Corps. Mary Lou says the choice of the Air Corps may have been because his new brother-in-law and best friend was a flight instructor in Tucson.
It didn’t work out as planned. Johnson washed out of flight school. “He was on his way to becoming a pilot when he pissed off his flight instructor. He then took training to become a navigator. He was sent to North Africa. The Allies had the Germans on the run by then and dad was shipped to Norwich, England a month later,” Mary Lou related.
Describing their visit to the 390th Bomb Group museum in Tucson, Mary Lou says, “When we saw the navigator’s seat on the B-24 in the 390th Museum, it was facing backwards in front of the pilot and co-pilot. On one mission dad got up to talk to the pilot. When he came back his seat was blown to bits.”
Top-Left: Lt. Harold Johnson poses with his wife, Betty. (Courtesy of Mary Lou Ridinger) Top-Right: Mary Lou Ridinger holds a photograph of her family. Her father, Lt. Johnson, was killed shortly after this picture was taken. (Myriam Moran, © 2014) Bottom: Mary Lou Ridinger stands next to a memorial wall for her father, Lt. Johnson. (Myriam Moran, © 2014)
Johnson was stationed in Wendling, England. Airmen would take the train into Norwich for rest and recreation. When they did 40 missions they could go home. That was all they had to do, bombing over Germany and France. On July 7, 1944, Johnson got home.
Mary Lou recounted the story of her father’s train ride from Norwich to London. “Dad was so relieved that he’d done his duty and he was going home. He didn’t send a telegram to my mom. He wanted to surprise her. We think he was being sent home the last week in June 1944. He would have gone from Wendling to Norwich then London. A little English boy sat next to him on the train.”
The young lad asked the tall Texan about his medals and whether he’d dropped bombs on Germany. “My father gave the boy his medals. We have a photo of my father being awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. When he was discharged from service, dad was a captain.”
Captain Harold Johnson’s family would like to find that little English boy. They would like to know what their father told him on the train. They would like to learn what happened to the Distinguished Flying Cross and Air Medal with Three Clusters their father had been awarded for his courage and valor in World War II. They would like to share memories with this child of so long ago that by chance sat next to their father on the first leg of his journey home. And perhaps know a little more about a man who died when they themselves were only children.
“That little English boy would be an older man now,” Mary Lou said. Are you the little boy on the train who was given Captain Harold Johnson’s medals? Perhaps his family or friends who may have been told about the encounter so long ago? Please write the editor and let us know. There are three daughters of this war hero who would like to meet you.
Mary Lou Ridinger (2nd L), daughter of Lt. Harold Johnson, is pictured with her family, including her son, daughter, grandson, and granddaughter. (Myriam Moran, © 2014)
John Christopher Fine is a marine biologist with two doctoral degrees, has authored 25 books, including award-winning books dealing with ocean pollution. He is a liaison officer of the U.N. Environment Program and the Confederation Mondiale for ocean matters. He is a member of the Academy of Underwater Arts and Sciences in honor of his books in the field of education. He has received international recognition for his pioneering work investigating toxic waste contamination of our land and water.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A deck crewman has covered up Loyce Deen while a decision is being made what to do with the aircraft, which sustained heavy battle damage. (Courtesy CDR Michael Cosgrove (Ret.), son of Robert D. Cosgrove via NavSource)
A Personal Memorial Day Memory: Introducing Loyce Deen of Altus, Oklahoma
Commentary
Pop, the uncle who raised me, carried with him for more than half a century a haunting memory from his time aboard the aircraft carrier Essex in World War II. Anti-aircraft fire had killed a turret gunner during a sortie. Pop, whose job it was to repair and prepare planes for the next mission, went up to inspect the plane as soon as it landed. What he encountered was a gruesome sight: the decapitated body of the turret gunner in a blood-soaked turret.
The captain of the Essex dispatched the ship’s chaplain to ask Pop if the plane could be patched up enough to fly again. Pop’s reply to the captain, via the chaplain/messenger, was, “Yes, but with all this blood in the tropical heat, it will stink to high heaven. I recommend we bury this man in the plane in which he had given his life for his country.” When the chaplain relayed Pop’s message to the captain up on the bridge, the captain turned to Pop and gave him the thumbs-up signal. The subsequent burial at sea was unique. It was the only time during World War II that a still-flightworthy aircraft was used as a coffin.
The burial scene was included in the 1950s series “Victory at Sea.” Pop saw it for the first time when the series was rebroadcast in the 1990s. Seeing that footage from onboard the Essex kicked Pop’s disturbing memories into overdrive. For years afterward he would often retell that vivid story late at night after consuming copious quantities of Jim Beam.
The story didn’t end for me with Pop’s passing in 1999. Several years later, I stumbled onto a website about the airman who was buried in his plane. (The website, by the way, includes the footage of the burial at sea.) Suddenly, I knew the man’s name, his family background, and details of his military service. The man who lost his life on that aircraft that day was Loyce Edward Deen of Altus, Oklahoma. The fatal flight took place on Nov. 5, 1944, in the Battle of Manila. The three-crew plane was the Grumman TBM (torpedo bomber) V-15.
The young Oklahoman seems like the kind of neighbor, classmate, friend, and comrade in arms that everybody would love to have. Loyce was his parents’ seventh child. He was followed four years later by one last sibling, a brother with Down’s Syndrome. Loyce was very close to his kid brother, but sadly, this brother died when Loyce was in 8th grade. Three years later, his mom had a stroke. Loyce helped care for her until she passed away about a month later.
In 1942, Loyce joined the Navy. On Oct. 24, 1944, his foot was wounded by shrapnel in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Heroically, he simply wrapped his foot and continued to fight on both the 24th and 25th. At month-end, Loyce had the option of recuperating on a hospital ship until his foot mended. Instead, he insisted on staying with his two crewmates, pilot Lt. Robert Cosgrove and Radioman Donald “Digby” Denzek. Character, courage, loyalty, and love—Loyce Deen had them in spades. It was people like him who made the USA great.
The next week, on Nov. 5, at the age of 23, Loyce was killed instantly by anti-aircraft fire during a sortie. One memorable detail is the stoicism of Loyce’s crewmates. Denzek reported to Cosgrove over the intercom that “Deen was hit bad.” “Hit bad”—what a compassionate and wise euphemism. Denzek didn’t want to grieve or distract Cosgrove with the distressing news of their friend’s death when the 24-year-old pilot still faced the nerve-wracking task of flying a damaged aircraft two anxious hours back to the Essex.
I feel like I knew Loyce Deen, even though our lifespans didn’t overlap and I’ve never met anyone who actually knew him. “Knowing” him has made a significant difference in my life. The most important male relatives in my life all saw combat in either World War II or Vietnam, but—thank you, Lord—none was killed in action. For most of my life, then, Memorial Day was always more of a general than a specific remembrance. That all changed when I found the Loyce Deen website. (Thank you, Gregg Mastriforte, webmaster.) My Memorial Days are now fuller and more meaningful than before because of the dramatic way in which Loyce crossed paths with Pop.
I’m sure the descendants of Loyce’s brothers and sisters know what a good man and great hero their great-uncle was. Through this article, I hope many more people will know about him. On Memorial Day, 2021, this solemn, reverential holiday, may all patriotic Americans honor the memory of tens of thousands of America’s best—people like Loyce Deen—who gave their lives that we and countless others might live in liberty. Thank you, Loyce. God bless you. And God bless all the other Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country.
Mark Hendrickson, an economist, recently retired from the faculty of Grove City College, where he remains a fellow for economic and social policy at the Institute for Faith and Freedom.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Tourists are seen at the Tidal Basin across from the Thomas Jefferson Memorial in Washington, on March 19, 2019. (Mandel Ngan/AFP via Getty Images)
Elites Choose Ugliness in Federal Architecture, No Matter What the People Prefer
Commentary
The firing of Justin Shubow and three other members of the United States Fine Arts Commission (they refused to resign, having committed no fault) reveals something disturbing about democracy as it is at present constituted: namely how easily elites may override the express preferences of the majority of citizens, even in matters non-political.
Shubow was the progenitor of President Trump’s executive order that henceforth the classical style of architecture should be the default style of all new federal buildings.
This was soon condemned as dictatorial by the architectural lobby, though it was nothing of the kind. It did not decree that all buildings in America should be built in this style, only new federal ones, a tiny proportion of the total: unlike the modernist architects of the past who wanted to dictate the style of architecture for the whole world, and to a surprising and horrifying extent succeeded, with devastating effects on the beauty of cities everywhere.
Ideally, it should not have been necessary or even advisable to issue such an executive order: good architecture should emerge from a whole culture, spontaneously, as a manifestation of a widespread aesthetic sensibility.
Unfortunately, we do not live in a world like this: and it often seems as if the people with the least aesthetic sensibility of all are precisely those who most need it, namely the architects. They have done everything possible to make the world uglier than it was before they set to work on it.
What is curious about the revocation of President Trump’s executive order and the sacking of Subow et al. is that a large majority of Americans would prefer federal buildings to be in the classical style, rather than in the various, largely hideous styles favored by the architectural cabal.
A larger majority of Republicans than Democrats prefer the classical style, but nevertheless the majority of Democrats who prefer it is very substantial. Here, at least, or at last, is a subject upon which the partisans of both parties can agree.
It is surely odd, then, that a government that calls itself democratic, and Democrat, should turn its back on a policy that is consonant with the tastes and wishes of the majority of the people, and remove the very public servants who would oversee its implementation.
Now it is perfectly true that the government cannot simply do what the majority of the population wishes in any and all circumstances.
From time to time, the majority of the population may wish for something extremely foolish or even wicked. An electoral dictatorship is to be avoided, as the framers of the Constitution very well knew.
But if ever there were a case in which it would be safe to follow the instincts and wishes of the people, this would be it.
To see why, one has only to make the painful comparison between the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials on the one hand, and the Eisenhower Memorial on the other.
It is sobering to recall that the Jefferson Memorial is far from ancient; it was inaugurated almost within living memory. In other words, the almost complete collapse of architectural taste and ability has been sudden.
You see it in Paris, too, where hardly a single building constructed after the Second World War does not detract greatly from, or even destroy for a considerable distance, the beauty of the city.
As for the City of London, its name should be changed to Dubai-on-Thames—except that this would now be an insult to Dubai.
Why would the administration reverse a popular policy under no pressing necessity to do so?
The first reason, obviously, is that the policy was proposed by its hated and despised predecessor, from which it wants to appear the polar opposite in all things, irrespective of what they are.
The second, probably more important, is that it has an elective affinity with the architectural elite which despises the opinion of the majority as ignorant, ill-informed and uncomprehending, exactly the charges levelled against those whose who did not vote for it.
The fact that this ignorant, ill-informed and uncomprehending public has no problem whatever in “comprehending” the Taj Mahal or Notre-Dame does not give them pause: perhaps it thinks that in five hundred years’ time its own work will finally be appreciated by a more enlightened public.
But how does the administration think it can get away with it? The answer is, easily.
The fact is that, when voters go to the polls, they vote for a package, not for a single item. It is unlikely that the question of the architectural style of future Federal buildings ranks very high in their concerns, and therefore they are not going to choose whom to vote for on its basis alone, however much they might prefer the style of such buildings to be classical.
Therefore, the administration is better off pandering to a powerful activist lobby, that of most architects, than complying with the wishes of a large majority.
There are constant asymmetrical struggles in modern democracies.
There are lobbies on the one hand which are single-minded and focused on a single question. If thwarted, they have the capacity, and the determination, to make a lot of trouble for those in power.
There are large numbers of people on the other hand whose views differ from those of the lobbies, but for whom each of the subjects of the lobbies’ interest is just one thing among many others, and rarely the most important thing at that.
It follows that lobbies may easily prevail over the wishes of the majority, even when the latter are perfectly reasonable, indeed meritorious. In a modern democracy, therefore, there is a constant triumph of what people do not want.
How important is the question of architecture? In my opinion, very—but not everyone agrees. When I grow agitated over some monstrosity or other (which means that I am often agitated when I venture out because there are so many of them), my wife tells me to calm down. What is done is done, she says, and cannot be undone.
But that is precisely the point. It is true that some of these monstrosities, perhaps, could be demolished, but not all of them, so that we are in effect condemning future generations to live in unnecessary ugliness.
Perhaps, growing up with it, they will not realize it, so it will not matter. Perhaps, then, my wife is right after all: but yet, however hard I try, I cannot feel that she is.
Theodore Dalrymple is a retired doctor. He is contributing editor of the City Journal of New York and the author of 30 books, including “Life at the Bottom.” His latest book is “Embargo and Other Stories.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.President Joe Biden (R) and South Korean President Moon Jae-in participate in a joint press conference in the East Room of the White House in Washington on May 21, 2021. (Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
South Korean Expert: Moon Jae-in’s Pro-US Statement A Result of Domestic Anti-CCP Pressure
News Analysis
A South Korean military expert has said it remains to be seen whether South Korean President Moon Jae-in’s stance toward the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will change after his visit to the United States. Moon concluded his four-day visit to the United States on May 22. The two countries signed a joint statement that for the first time mentioned the Taiwan Strait and South China Sea issues, surpassing the Korean public’s expectations of a government that has, to date, been in lockstep with the CCP’s influence efforts.
On May 21, U.S. President Joe Biden met with Moon at the White House and published a joint statement on issues of mutual concern, including the Korean Peninsula, peace in the Indo-Pacific, and U.S.-South Korea relations.
The statement said the two countries oppose any action that threatens, disrupts, or undermines the rules-based international order and are committed to maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific region. It stressed the importance of preserving peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, and the importance of the “QUAD” (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) between the United States, Japan, India, and Australia to contain the CCP.
The statement also ended the South Korea Ballistic Missile Range Guidelines signed in 1979, lifting the 800 kilometer (497 mile) limit on the range of South Korean missiles. That would put Beijing, which is 950 kilometers (590 miles) from South Korea, within range of its missiles. South Korean media said that this move paves the way for the country to improve its own strength and control the CCP.
South Korean newspaper JoongAng Ilbo reported that Moon returned to South Korea on the evening of May 23. On his way from Washington to Atlanta, Moon posted a message on social media saying that he had had “the best visit and the best meeting ever,” which had “achieved more than expected results.”
“Moon’s remarks mean that he has agreed to readjust the alliance between South Korea and the United States over the past four years. The South Korean government, which has been adhering to a ‘vague strategy,’ has decided to refocus on the U.S. in the face of the U.S.-China conflict,” the report quoted a diplomat saying.
Declining Approval Ratings Force Moon to Change
Kim Tae Woo, a professor of military science at Konyang University in South Korea, told The Epoch Times that Moon’s declining domestic approval rating was one of the main reasons for his recent pro-American statements.
According to the Chosun Ilbo newspaper, a poll released on April 30 showed that Moon’s approval rating had dropped below 30 percent for the first time to 29 percent—the lowest since he took office.
Many South Koreans have long been dissatisfied with Moon’s pro-CCP policies. After the outbreak of the CCP virus last year, 1.45 million Koreans signed an impeachment petition calling for Moon’s ouster. “President Moon Jae-in’s policy toward the novel coronavirus shows that he is more like the president of China than the president of the Republic of Korea,” the impeachment document said.
According to a recent Pew Research Center survey, the percentage of South Koreans who now have a negative view of China has risen from 37 percent in 2015 to 75 percent in 2020, with 80 percent of young people having a negative view.
Moon Made No Breakthroughs With Pro-CCP Stance
The South Korean government has been communicating with the CCP through diplomatic channels about the Korea-U.S. summit, Korea’s Yonhap News Agency revealed, citing sources at the Blue House. Senior officials from the Blue House said that although mention of the Taiwan Strait appeared for the first time in the Korea-U.S. joint statement, it was only an in principle statement of a basic position.
Citing public opinion, Yonhap News Agency reported that, although Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian and Chinese Ambassador to South Korea Xing Haiming expressed dissatisfaction with the South Korea-U.S. statement, it was generally believed that the tone and wording of the statement were far from as harsh as the one that came out of the U.S.-Japan summit.
According to Kim, “The U.S.-Japan statement issued in April drew strong protests from the CCP and differed significantly from the U.S.-South Korea statement. The former focused on the Chinese and North Korean nuclear issues, and directed their cooperation in a specific way, while the U.S.-South Korea statement used a lot of diplomatic rhetoric to reach consensus on the Chinese and North Korean nuclear issues.
About the CCP’s response to the joint statement, Kim said, “At this stage, the CCP is just using diplomatic rhetoric when criticizing the U.S.-South Korea statement. It may believe that the Moon administration will not turn its back on it.
“If the South Korean government is serious about implementing this statement in the future, then the CCP will step up and take action. But of course, we cannot be pushed around by it,” he added.
Another concern of the public is whether there will be a change in Moon’s “Three Noes” promise to the CCP.
In October 2017, to assuage the CCP’s dissatisfaction with South Korea’s THAAD anti-missile system, Moon made a “Three Noes” promise to Beijing, including not making additional deployments of THAAD, not joining the U.S.-led regional missile defense system, and not accepting a trilateral military alliance between the United States, South Korea, and Japan.
Judging by the CCP’s reaction, Moon’s “Three Noes” promise to China has not been affected. While the joint statement talks about trilateral cooperation between the U.S. and Japan, it doesn’t make any commitments.
Implementation of the Declaration Remains to Be Seen
Kim said that judging only from the content in the joint statement, the declaration should still be considered productive. But whether it was sincere is hard to say and remains to be seen.
“I was very unhappy that Moon has been sitting on the fence between the United States and China in order to seek close ties with North Korea and the CCP,” Kim said. “After reading the joint statement, I changed my view upon seeing that the alliance still exists. But based on what the Moon administration has done over the past four years, it remains to be seen how trustworthy South Korea-U.S. statements can be.”
When it comes to Moon’s China policy, Kim said, “Taiwan is a very sensitive topic for Beijing. The U.S.-Japan statement drew strong protests from Beijing because of this issue. Now, the U.S.-South Korea statement has included some of the CCP’s most sensitive issues, such as Taiwan and the South China Sea. Although there is no direct mention of the CCP, the statement refers to it. It’s surprising that Moon, who has stuck to appeasement all the time, would adopt this.”
On the future of the South Korea-U.S. alliance, Kim said that the issue “will be decided by the South Korean election next year. If South Koreans choose socialism and are willing to accept pro-Communist and pro-North Korean forces, the United States will reconsider the alliance, so South Koreans ought to make a correct judgment [next year].”
Epoch Times reporters Yeonjae Lee and Lisa Bian contributed to this report.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Matthew Murphy, 4, places a rose on a tombstone beside his father, Kevin Murphy, of Springfield, Va., during a volunteer event at Arlington National Cemetery ahead of Memorial Day on May 26, 2019, in Arlington, Va. (Tom Brenner/Getty Images)
This Memorial Day, a New Birth of Freedom
On Memorial Day, we honor those soldiers who gave their lives for our country.
In the Gettysburg Address, perhaps the greatest reflection in our history on such sacrifice, Abraham Lincoln refers to the fallen soldiers as having given “the last full measure of devotion.”
In our nation’s present crisis, we can learn from the devotion of which Lincoln spoke more than 150 years ago.
Speaking after the Union had won a decisive battle, he begins his address by saying: “Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, on this continent, a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure.”
This Memorial Day we are, thankfully, not fighting a civil war, but we are nonetheless engaged in a struggle for the soul of our nation.
Dangerous new ideas are challenging whether we can remain a nation “conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.”
Of course, the very meaning of equality is contested these days. Some seek to turn society in the direction of socialism in order to ensure we all have the exact same conditions of life.
The Declaration of Independence, which Lincoln highly admired, says we’re “created equal.” We are equal in that all possess God-given rights. These confer on us the right to pursue happiness, but they don’t guarantee anyone a particular outcome.
Critical race theory creates division in our nation, as it seeks to make us unequal.
It teaches that some of us are, by virtue of skin color, racists and oppressors, while others, by virtue of skin color, are morally superior.
The proponents of critical race theory often replace our traditional practices of liberty with coercion.
Individuals in corporations and schools are subjected to reeducation sessions reminiscent of China’s Cultural Revolution, in which they must confess their guilt. Those who don’t risk losing their jobs.
A new spirit of intolerance abounds in our land, and many refuse to give voice to their true beliefs for fear of being shunned, or worse.
Behind critical race theory lies the specter of Marxism, dressed in new clothes. It seeks to inflame the wounds our nation carries from past racism in hopes of bringing on a disease fatal to our free republic.
But this Memorial Day offers us the opportunity to begin healing our distressed nation.
Lincoln concludes his remarks at Gettysburg by saying: “It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
This Memorial Day, we need to reflect deeply on the sacrifices of those we honor. They died in devotion to the idea of America, of a free country dedicated to the proposition of equality.
So let us now dedicate ourselves to a “new birth of freedom.” Doing so, we will, with our acts, honor our fallen heroes in the most fitting manner and safeguard the meaning of their sacrifice.
It goes without saying that as we work to revive the principles of equality and freedom, we do so steadfastly but without seeking to make enemies of those whose positions we oppose.
Near the end of the bloodiest war in our nation’s history, Lincoln was able to say, in his Second Inaugural Address, “With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in to bind up the nation’s wounds.”
The strength of our republic lies in our “firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right.”
There are those—revolutionaries who seek to use our freedom to destroy that freedom—who wish the United States ill. These we oppose with all our might.
But the great majority of the advocates of critical race theory and other pernicious ideas are themselves the victims of bad education. While we are unrelenting in opposing their ideas, we treat them with charity. We understand that as poor ideas are replaced with better ones, everyone has a healthy role to play in realizing the destiny of our nation.Brooklyn hosts the oldest Memorial Day Parade in the US, the Kings County Memorial Day Parade has been running for 147 years. (Sarah Le/Epoch Times)
A Vietnam Memorial: Remembering Heroes and Villains From an Unpopular Conflict
Commentary
Memorial Day ceremonies tend to feature World War II, with good reason. The Allies’ triumph over the Axis powers gave people cause to celebrate. Presidents who served in World War II include Dwight Eisenhower, commander of Allied forces, and George H.W. Bush, a pilot with Torpedo Squadron 51 (VT-51), shot down by the Japanese on his 58th mission, then rescued by a U.S. submarine.
George H.W. Bush was the last American president with actual combat experience in World War II, and few veterans of that conflict remain. The time has come to focus on a conflict less popular—the war in Vietnam.
Many questioned whether the United States should have entered the conflict, and most Americans, fair to say, agreed that Washington badly mismanaged the war. Even so, many American soldiers fought heroically. Consider, for example, Charles “Chuck” Mawhinney.
Paratroopers assigned to 173rd Airborne Brigade conduct sniper training during Exercise Rock Sokol at Pocek Range in Postonja, Slovenia, May 10, 2018. Exercise Rock Sokol is a bilateral training exercise between the U.S. Army 173rd Airborne Brigade and the Slovenian Armed Forces, focused on small-unit tactics and building on previous lessons learned, forging the bonds and enhancing readiness between allied forces. (U.S. Army photo by Graigg Faggionato)
The Marine Corps sniper, born in 1949, deployed to Vietnam after the Tet Offensive and operated near Da Nang. When a Viet Cong force was marching toward the American base, Mawhinney volunteered to cover a shallow spot on a river where the enemy was expected to cross. With his Remington M40 sniper rifle, Mawhinney took down 16 Viet Cong, all within 30 seconds, at night and in bad weather. This feat was not a matter of chance.
Mawhinney, who’s father was a Marine Corps sniper in World War II, told American Rifleman in 2012, “I started shooting at a very young age, and he taught me to shoot like the Marines taught him, so there wasn’t any big transition from hunting in Oregon to becoming a sniper.” Mawhinney joined the Marines right out of high school, graduated from Scout Sniper School at Camp Pendleton in April of 1968, and then it was on to Vietnam.
There Mawhinney recorded 103 confirmed kills with another 216 “probables.” Few people knew until fellow Marine sniper Joseph Ward mentioned Mawhinney in “Dear Mom: A Sniper’s Vietnam,” published in 1991. Mawhinney has never received the recognition he deserves, and neither has Col. Fred Cherry, the African American U.S. Air Force pilot who spent seven years as a prisoner of war (POW) in North Vietnam.
Born in Suffolk, Virginia, Cherry experienced racial prejudice and segregation first hand but did not let it hold him back from achievement. He graduated from Virginia Union University in 1951 and joined the U.S. Air Force. A skilled pilot, Cherry would soon be flying combat missions over Stalinist North Korea.
In 1965 Cherry was flying an F-105 fighter-bomber over North Vietnam when he took anti-aircraft fire and his plane exploded. He bailed out, suffered major injuries, and fell captive to the enemy. The North Vietnamese thought they had a real find and threw Cherry in a cell with Porter Halyburton, a white pilot from North Carolina. The communists hoped to stoke racial friction that would break down Cherry and make him a propaganda tool. The captors’ plan backfired.
Halyburton duly attended to Cherry’s wounds and watched over his black countryman around the clock. Cherry credited the white southerner with saving his life, and Halyburton thought Cherry had done the same for him. The two became lifelong friends, but in captivity both faced a hard road. The communists slapped Cherry into solitary confinement for 702 days and the pilot endured punishment and torture for 93 straight days. By the time of his release in 1973, Cherry had racked up 2,671 days in captivity.
Vietnam War veteran Robert Rosebrock stands in front of the Veteran Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System campus to protest uses of the campus he says does not serve veterans, on June 7, 2020. (Hau Nguyen/The Epoch Times)
The story of Cherry and Halyburton emerged in Leading With Honor: Leadership Lessons from the Hanoi Hilton (2014) by American pilot Lee Ellis. He had been shot down in November 1967 on a mission to destroy the guns that protected the Quang Khe ferry that supplied the Ho Chi Minh Trail. In the Hoa Lao prison, which POWs dubbed the Hanoi Hilton, Ellis learned firsthand about North Vietnam and its systematic torture of American POWs. As the author notes, the North Vietnamese tortured more than 95 percent of American POWs including eight tortured to death. But the torture wasn’t all physical.
The captors piped in propaganda and, Ellis explains, “the afternoon broadcasts were especially disheartening because they featured Americans spouting words that could have been written for them in Moscow and Hanoi.” New Left icon Tom Hayden “was a regular speaker,” later joined by his wife, “film star Jane Fonda.”
Ellis charitably calls them “anti-war activists” but they were nothing of the kind. Many Americans were against the conflict but Hayden and Fonda wanted the North Vietnamese to win and the country unified under communism.
Cherry passed away in February, 2016, during Black History Month, but President Barack Obama did not rush to honor him. Chuck Mawhinney is still around, and his lack of official recognition should come as no surprise.
Unlike World War II, Vietnam veterans were vilified beyond measure and did not get a memorial until the 1980s. The more than 58,000 names on that wall include 40,934 Americans killed in action. The people in power today are not worthy of carrying their shoes.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Fraudsters Go Where the (COVID-19) Money Is
Commentary
In June 2020, eight guys in Brooklyn put their heads together, according to the U.S. Department of Justice, and came up with a scheme to steal strangers’ identities and take what didn’t belong to them.
Just a couple months before that—in the earliest days of the COVID-19 scare—Congress passed a $2.2 trillion bill called the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. The money was supposed to go to the millions of isolated Americans who had their paychecks interrupted during the pandemic.
The mooks in Brooklyn had other plans.
This gang of eight, ranging in age from 18 to 25, submitted some $2 million worth of fake unemployment claims for CARES Act assistance. And they got away with it for nearly a year, according to the feds. Several of these criminals stupidly posted online photos of themselves flashing stacks of money. Others were caught on ATM cameras withdrawing their free cash. Busted!
The more Uncle Sam giveth, the more criminals taketh away. And it wasn’t just the Brooklyn gang. Besides extra money for bigger unemployment checks, Congress allocated nearly $350 billion for Small Business Administration loans to be doled out by vendors at some 3,800 financial institutions.
Now we find out that just one of those lenders, an online firm called Kabbage, OK’d more than $7 million to go to fake companies, mostly nonexistent farms. Speed in disbursement was the name of the game, and apparently, vetting applications was lax. Many entities seeking loans from Kabbage seemed fishy. Farms and cattle ranches on a New Jersey sandbar? An orange grove in Minnesota? A potato field in ritzy Palm Beach, Florida? All were phony baloney.
The SBA’s inspector general now estimates that close to 100,000 loans went to businesses that were ineligible or got more cash than they should have. As of late March, the DOJ has brought criminal fraud charges against 474 people who sought to rake in a collective $570 million.
It’s great that the feds caught up with these cheaters, but there must have been a better way to administer this program from the get-go, right? Simply relying on after-the-fact prosecution is like trying to chase the horse after it bolts through the open barn door.
An acquaintance tells me he was expecting a small relief payment on a debit card but it never arrived. His wife called to trace it, but the automated system required her to punch in the number on the card—which, again, they never received. A typical government Catch-22. They ultimately gave up and are still wondering who got their $318 debit card.
The point is there has been so much money flowing out of the U.S. Treasury over the past year that the task of keeping track of all of it seems futile. Trillions of dollars in aid have already been approved by Congress; trillions more are under consideration.
This isn’t monopoly money, folks. And according to The Wall Street Journal, billions of dollars already pumped into the U.S. economy are still sitting there. Between the CARES Act and the companion American Rescue Plan Act, more than $32 billion earmarked just for pandemic-ravaged hospitals remains unspent. They can’t spend their money fast enough to make the June 30 deadline, so hospitals are seeking an extension.
The Rescue Plan also allocated a windfall $350 billion for states to help spur a post-pandemic recovery. Some states will be swimming in surplus dough, but who in Washington will be checking to see if the lengthy spending rules for that money are actually being followed? Let’s hope the supervision is better than what occurred with the Kabbage loans.
It’s time to remember the reported words of notorious criminal Willie Sutton. When asked why he robbed banks, he is said to have answered, “Because that’s where the money is!”
Whether Sutton actually uttered those words is in dispute, but this is a certainty: The criminal element will flock to wherever there is an abundance of cash and lax oversight. Today, money is being printed and is flowing out of the U.S. Treasury at a ferocious pace. Calculating criminals are making plans.
When the U.S. government isn’t diligent, taxpayers lose. It’s abundantly clear that conscientious oversight isn’t being practiced. I say, no more money bills until that changes.
Diane Dimond is an author and investigative journalist. Her latest book is “Thinking Outside the Crime and Justice Box.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.President Joe Biden departs the White House via the North Portico, in Washington on May 28, 2021. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)
US Under Biden Is Neither Feared Nor Respected
Commentary
China refuses to talk with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and it shows that Joe Biden’s America is neither feared nor respected.
Neither Chinese Defense Minister Wei Fenghe nor Beijing’s Central Military Commission Vice Chairman Xu Qiliang, who is close to Chinese Communist Party (CCP) boss Xi Jinping, will take Austin’s call.
It shows that the Chinese view themselves as the side with power. Reading in-between the lines of an article that appeared on the CCP propaganda site The Global Times, the response seems to suggest that Beijing believes it can obtain concessions from Washington by holding out. By desperately chasing Beijing, the Biden administration has chosen to posture against China from a position of weakness.
The Global Times said:
“The US is now releasing inaccurate information through the press and is attempting to shift the blame to China for the fact that no high-level military talks have taken place so far. This is irresponsible. The source noted that as long as the US can abide by this principle, communication and talks are wide open at all levels between the Chinese and US militaries. The US always wants to get along with China from an advantageous position, setting preconditions for military-to-military relations, while China always stresses that mutual respect and mutual benefit in cooperation are the way to go in bilateral relations, the source said.”
“Mutual respect” and “mutual benefit in cooperation” to China means doing everything China’s way and on China’s terms. It doesn’t mean getting the CCP to end its territorial claims to the South China Sea or belligerency toward Taiwan, Vietnam, or the Philippines.
The Chinese clearly have the upper hand. North Korea’s leadership similarly ignored a Biden administration request to talk.
As Sun-Tzu said in “The Art of War,” “By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near.”
American and Chinese naval forces have played a game of cat and mouse in recent months to Beijing’s irritation. China protested the recent passage of the American destroyer USS Curtis Wilbur through the Taiwan Strait. The Biden administration has continued the Trump administration’s policy of sending U.S. warships through the disputed waterways despite Chinese protests, particularly in the disputed Taiwan Strait, Spratly, and Paracel islands.
Don’t think that China hasn’t watched as President Joe Biden and his administration have conceded time after time following tough talk since January. First, the Biden administration promised that it would not end sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program. Then Biden recklessly decided to pursue re-entering the Iran nuclear deal without any leverage over Tehran, not unlike his support for the failed SALT II nuclear arms control treaty with the Soviet Union 40 years ago.
With regard to Russia, Biden started off his term agreeing to let Vladimir Putin continue his nuclear modernization program and pledge of a first-use option with his tactical nuclear weapons in the event of a war between Russia and NATO in the Baltics or Poland. Then he flip-flopped on whether or not he would uphold President Donald Trump’s sanctions on the Nordstream 2 pipeline that further cements German dependence on Russia for natural gas. He did all of this despite having spent the entire 2020 campaign attacking former President Trump as “Putin’s puppy.”
Had Trump done what Biden has done, the current president and his supporters would have accused the former president of being a “traitor.”
Trump bombed Russian mercenaries in Syria that threatened U.S. interests. Now Russia appears to be in Syria to stay and is now basing its deadly Tu-22M3 Backfire bombers there, and there’s scant word from the Biden administration about this development. The Soviet Union developed the Backfire during the Cold War with the aim of sinking U.S. aircraft carriers. They’re a direct threat to the U.S. Sixth Fleet, not just to Syrian jihadists who are opposed to the Assad regime.
A former senior U.S. diplomat who I spoke with, who worked with the Chinese, told me that this brinksmanship on China’s part is all about getting Biden to cave. There’s no doubt that Beijing sees a chance to get Biden to concede in areas where Beijing seeks dominance in East Asia based on what it’s seen from his performance as president.
I warned that Biden would pre-emptively surrender to the nation’s enemies in December. Four months of the Biden presidency have proven my instincts to have been correct. Thus far, Biden has:
Caved to Russia on nuclear weapons and the NordStream 2 pipeline;
Given Iran a blank check to foster terrorism and disrupt the peace in Yemen, Iraq, Israel, and Syria;
And worked to get Iran back into the violated nuclear deal, ignoring the fact that the country that has consistently violated every agreement it’s ever signed.
We saw that the Biden team isn’t up to the job when the Chinese foreign minister and his wolf-warrior diplomats lectured Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his team about supposed American human-rights violations in Anchorage in March. Instead of rising to the challenge, Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan backed down and apologized.
The United States must return to a posture of strength and increase its military support for Taiwan, Japan, India, and Australia. It should consider deploying intermediate-range nuclear missiles (IRBMs) to the Aleutians to threaten China.
And it must increase the freedom of navigation patrols until the Chinese are forced to the point of irritation to talk. The same goes for dealing with Moscow and backing Ukraine, the Baltics, and NATO’s Eastern European allies.
Diplomacy without power leads to war and surrender.
The world saw what happened when power-hungry dictators are appeased following the 1938 Munich Conference and “peace in our time.” Incompetence in confronting Hitler led to my family in the Vosges Mountains of Eastern France spending four years under Nazi occupation even though the French army had been regarded as the strongest in Europe on paper.
Hitler would have been finished had the French retaliated against the Nazis for militarizing the Ruhr Valley in 1935 and pressed the attack into Germany in 1939.
Appeasement causes more deaths every time.
John Rossomando is a senior analyst for defense policy at the Center for Security Policy and served as senior analyst for counterterrorism at The Investigative Project on Terrorism for eight years.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The cast of the television comedy "Friends" (From L-R:) Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow, Jennifer Aniston, and David Schwimmer pose with their award at the 26th People's Choice Awards in Pasadena, Calif., on Jan. 9, 2000. (Lucy Nicholson/AFP via Getty Images)
‘Friends’ No More: China Censors Lady Gaga, BTS, Justin Bieber From Reunion Episode
Commentary
“In China, the reunion episode of ‘Friends’ was all about grudges,” writes the brilliant Paul Mozur in the New York Times. “The problem wasn’t ‘Friends,’ but the friends of ‘Friends.’”
Three Chinese video platforms streamed the reunion episode of “Friends” on May 27. But the latest episode of the 1990s American sitcom, beloved by many Chinese who learned English watching it, was censored. Appearances by Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga, and BTS, a K-pop group, had been cut. These superstars committed the crime of thinking, and saying, the wrong thing, and are now erased from Chinese telecom. What were their crimes?
In 2016, Lady Gaga met the Dalai Lama, an exiled Tibetan leader renowned for his spirituality. Since then, her fandom has been gagged in China.
In 2014, Justin Bieber posted a snap from Tokyo’s Yasukuni Shrine. It honors Japan’s war dead from World War II. China persists in using the memory of World War II, as it uses the Opium Wars of Britain, to propagandize against these now democratic and reformed countries. They aren’t what they used to be, yet the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will not let it go.
Most amazing was the censorship of South Korea’s BTS, which when remembering the difficulties of the Korean War, failed to acknowledge China’s “sacrifice,” even though the CCP was one of the aggressors, along with North Korea, in that horrific violence against the South.
Perhaps to avoid such expensive awkwardness, the star of “Fast and Furious 9,” or “F9” for short, John Cena, kowtowed to Beijing this week by apologizing profusely and in Mandarin for referring to Taiwan as a country. Mr. Cena posted the video apology on Weibo, a Chinese social network similar to Twitter, that boasts 222 million active users. In China, “F9” grossed $135 million last weekend. Eighty-three percent of its international revenues were in China. This weekend’s receipts were now at risk.
“Now I have to say one thing which is very, very, very important: I love and respect China and Chinese people,” Cena gushed in the video. “I’m very sorry for my mistakes. Sorry. Sorry. I’m really sorry. You have to understand that I love and respect China and Chinese people.”
I was embarrassed for him. It’s not quite the American tough-guy image with which he wrestled fame from the jaws of defeat. His crime? Saying to a Taiwan broadcaster that “Taiwan is the first country that can watch” his new film. Cringe.
He ought now to apologize to Taiwan, for apologizing about calling it a country. It is a country.
Thousands of Weibo users rejected Cena’s apology. One posted, “Please say ‘Taiwan is part of China’ in Chinese. Otherwise, we will not accept your apology.” It was liked thousands of times.
In that moment, Cena symbolized a humbled America. Captain America kowtowing to Beijing for crumbs, over issues like Tibet, Hong Kong, the Tiananmen Square Massacre, and Xinjiang (East Turkistan) that we ought to stand up for on principle.
Imagine a world without Lady Gaga, BTS, and Justin Bieber. Imagine a world in which our professional wrestlers salute the Chinese Communist flag (which is different than the Chinese flag) before jumping in the ring. No more red-white-and-blue underpants.
Imagine telling your kids and their friends they can’t listen to what they want, see what they want, and read what they want. This is the world that the Chinese Communist Party is offering. This is the China Dream.
Even if you dislike all these superstars, and never appreciated those flag pants, you should appreciate, or re-appreciate, the First Amendment that protects them all for those who do like them. Remember it from high school?
“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.”
The First Amendment is illegal in China. “Friends,” Americans, get your mojo back before it’s illegal in America.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Critical Race Theory Update: Et Tu, Williamson County?
Commentary
Williamson County? Never heard of it. What’s the big deal?
Well, a lot.
Williamson County, Tennessee, is what you might call “Republican Heaven.” Just south of Democrat-stronghold Nashville, much of it is a gorgeous suburb, home to the likes of country star Luke Bryan of “American Idol” fame—on a 150-acre estate—and Sen. Marsha Blackburn.
Its county seat, Franklin, has a downtown straight out of an updated version of Norman Rockwell, the kind of place you can get both great barbecue and haute cuisine.
That small city and county are growing like crazy, in large part because they are also supposed to have one of the best public school systems in the country.
Supposed to.
‘Moms for Liberty’
I had lunch the other day with two Williamson women who have just formed that county’s branch of a new movement for parental rights—mostly focused on schools—called “Moms for Liberty.”
Their chapter is growing even faster than Williamson County itself because they, and many others, are angry about what was going on in those very schools. You might even say furious.
One of the women, local founder Robin Steenman, is a retired Air Force officer who piloted B-1 bombers over Afghanistan. The other, Lori Friedheim, a Filipina American UC–Berkeley graduate in the sciences, is the chapter’s director of research.
Friedheim and her husband, who had been living in a San Francisco suburb and were fed up with the deteriorating lifestyle—not to mention the taxes—decided to move to Franklin because, after an extensive online search, they determined it to have the best schools of anywhere in all the low tax—needless to say red—states.
She was in for a shock, as was Robin Steenman who also had children in the school system.
While Tennessee Republican Gov. Bill Lee and the heavily Republican Legislature trumpet their resistance to critical race theory in the state’s educational system, the reality on the ground is, as the French say, “toute autre chose”—something else again.
Life isn’t always what you see on Hannity.
Happening Everywhere
Before going into the details of what’s being taught—and has been for several years—in those schools, I want to reiterate why I wrote “Et Tu, Williamson County.”
If this type of propaganda can take over the elementary schools in a place with such an educated, well-to-do, largely conservative populace, it’s undoubtedly happening everywhere, or nearly everywhere, in the public schools and most of the private and parochial schools of this country.
Many think our country is already changing rapidly in front of our eyes, but nowhere is it changing more rapidly, and in a Marxist direction, than in our schools.
That will produce the end of the United States of America as we know it as surely and as quickly as anything. In fact, it already has.
It’s not a question of just stopping this. It’s a question of rolling back what has already happened.
Critical race theory—the concept that we are all permanently defined by our skin color, and not our character—has been in schools for years in an only slightly covert manner.
‘Injustice’ for Second Graders
And, as Steenman explained to me, it’s getting worse—that is, more overt—in Williamson County. In March 2020, their school board approved a curriculum called “Wit and Wisdom,” which consists of seemingly harmless things, published by an outfit named Great Minds, LLC. In this case, they really do think alike!
Here’s only a sampling of what Williamson second graders—7- and 8-year-olds—are in for starting in August with “Wit and Wisdom.” As you look at this, remember that this is the curriculum and manner through which, for months, these children are also being taught reading, writing, arithmetic, science, history, civics, art, music, and so forth:
“Lesson 1:
Point out the word injustice. Explain that unfair and injustice mean the same thing. Injustice is a stronger word. Explain … how real people respond to injustice. Explore the word injustice. Reread … how real people respond to injustice? Leave posted reference throughout the module. Echo read: What injustices did people face before the Civil Rights Act of 1964? Point to the word injustice. Remind the class of the meaning of this word injustice. Explain … read … people fighting injustice. Show students the images. What do you notice about the images? Share observations. Remind the meaning of injustice. Develop a non-verbal signal for injustice.”
OK, you get the picture. It goes on for another dozen or so similar bullet points—and this is only Lesson 1—but I can’t resist one more because it makes clear the unremittingly depressing nature of this curriculum.
“15. Lesson on prefixes: injustice, unequal, inequality, unfair.”
Couldn’t they think of any positive prefixes for their lesson? How about supercalifragilisticexpialidocious? Oh, I forgot. Mary Poppins is upbeat and white. Definitely not in the curriculum and unacceptable for today’s second graders. Eugene “Bull” Connor, not surprisingly, is.
The images referred to above for comment by the second graders are almost entirely black-and-whites from the early civil rights period, showing black people being hosed by vicious whites with signs like “We want white tenants in our white community” and “We won’t [go to school with negroes]”—that last held by a proudly grinning white boy.
One of the images contained the “n-word” scrawled on a wall, something, I was told, none of the children even knew until then, naturally color blind as they were. Who says you never learn anything in school?
Creates Division
But how do 7- and 8-year-olds react to all this continually downbeat, violent material, emphasizing racial division above all, for hours and days on end?
There are reports of growing numbers of children in therapy, plus an increasing suicide rate abounds, though some of it is due to COVID-19 as well. But I heard a personal story that affected me particularly deeply.
I was at a recent, surprisingly well-attended “Moms for Liberty” meeting in Franklin, at which an immigrant woman from Thailand, married to a Caucasian, spoke.
She read aloud a lengthy, heartfelt letter she wrote to Williamson County School Superintendent Jason Golden about the severe educational and emotional disturbances her mixed-race 7-year old son suffered from attending one of their schools. To his parent’s consternation, the boy ended up despising his white half. I quote her, in part:
“The story of Dr. King and his ‘I have a Dream’ speech is beautiful and uplifting. This is the world my child lived in until now. He was color blind. But this curriculum has changed that. It is far more harmful than helpful. It depresses him. It is dark and divisive. It paints a world with only white and black people. It paints a picture of poor black people being attacked by evil white people.
“Even more problematic, the teacher would not accept the non-racial, color blind answer from our son to a question she asked. So, the teacher asked again and again, looking for a different (acceptable) answer.”
Years ago, during Soviet times, I visited a Young Communist League Training School in Crimea. They used a similar method.
The mother concluded:
“We expect 2nd graders to be learning basic educational concepts and not be force fed story after story of racial aggressions and evils committed in the past. This is not how we create a better world for our children. This curriculum only highlights race and creates further division among the new generation. We want our child to be colorblind and value people for who they are and not the color of their skin or for past evils or mistakes that other people made in history.”
Amen to that.
Child Abuse
What that mother wrote goes for all children, although those of mixed race clearly have a special problem—and there is an increasing number of those.
We can conclude that critical race theory and all its evil spawn in various curricula, such as those permeating the vaunted Williamson County schools, are little more than a form of child abuse, one so extreme that it promises to tear our country apart.
Indeed, that is its not-so-hidden intention, given in its provenance in earlier schools of Marxism and critical theory. And it’s succeeding all too well. As I said, if it’s happening in Williamson, it’s probably happening everywhere.
These “Moms for Liberty” are part of the solution, a big part since they’re motivated by that strong natural urge for mothers to protect their children. And they’ve got a lot to protect them from these days.
This is a movement to applaud and strengthen as they are the ones who could really make our educational system, and therefore our country, great again. They already have a number of chapters.
Locally, perhaps the mother from Thailand and Golden should switch roles.
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now, editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.In the Case of the Dingo, We See Wishes Forming Beliefs
Commentary
It is easier to adhere to preconceived ideas than to follow wherever the evidence may lead. Intellectual honesty is more often praised than practised, and more people read to confirm what they already think to be the case than read to expand their mental horizons.
Perhaps it would be a good idea if, instead of making new year’s resolutions, we reflected upon how many ideas or opinions we had abandoned in the previous twelve months in the light of evidence. I suspect that in most cases it would not be many, or even a single one. I do not exclude myself from this generalization.
In his “Autobiography,” Charles Darwin said that he always noted down anything that made difficulties for his theory, for otherwise he was sure to forget it.
I doubt that he was alone in this propensity; and many of us can “smell” in advance, so to speak, what might disturb our pre-conceptions, and therefore avoid reading or listening to it.
This is not to say that we can do away altogether with preconceptions and prejudices. Such is impossible, and what is impossible cannot be desirable; even if it were possible, however, it would be foolish.
What is possible, though, is to make ourselves aware of our preconceptions and be willing to test them against evidence and abandon them if necessary. By necessary, I mean intellectually necessary.
We more readily believe what we want to believe than what we don’t want to believe. The wish is often father to the thought.
An interesting example of this influence of wishes on thoughts is the discussion in Australia, sometimes impassioned, over the status of the dingo, apex predator of the Australian ecosystem. Is the dingo a separate species, or is it merely a domestic dog that went feral a long time ago?
You might think that was simply a scientific question, one for mammal taxonomists and geneticists to sort out. Either the dingo is a separate species or it is not. But in fact there is plenty of room for disagreement on this point, in part because the concept of a species is itself sometimes a little fuzzy.
That the dingo is at the least a very close relation of the dog, Canis familiaris, is beyond dispute. It is also agreed that its ancestors arrived on the continent some thousands of years ago, from what is now Indonesia.
The dingo can interbreed with domestic dogs (the ability to interbreed without producing sterile offspring such as a mule being one criterion of speciation), but—according to recent research—rarely does so.
Most dingoes are pure dingoes and after the first weeks of life cannot be domesticated. It is clearly different from a poodle.
The dingo is, if course, a carnivore and on rare occasions is dangerous to man, especially to children. It kills sheep and cattle in substantial numbers, and livestock farmers regard it as a pest. There are up to 50,000 dingoes in the wild.
Does it matter in practice whether or not they are a separate species?
Thanks to human legislation as it is at present, it does. If the dingo is a separate species, it would be protected by laws that protect the native fauna of Australia.
If it is not, in other words if it is merely Canis familiaris gone to the bad, it would not be protected and would be fair game for farmers who wanted to eliminate it as a pest.
The longest continuous fence in the word is in Australia, protecting livestock-farming areas from the predation of dingoes. It is alleged by biologists that the presence of dingoes, or more dingoes, on one side of the fence than the other demonstrates that they have a protective effect on the diversity of fauna because, being the apex predator, they limit the numbers of imported carnivorous competitors such as the domestic cat and the fox, which are far more destructive to small animals. (Australia has an immense number of species of small marsupial and other mammals, some of which are in danger of extinction because of the erosion of their habitat.)
The dingo question divides along the following lines: those who value livestock protection more than nature think of the dingo as a kind of blot on the landscape, and have no objection to their elimination, while those who value the natural world and biodiversity more wish to protect it.
I am not a nature mystic: something is not good just because it is natural. I should welcome the total elimination of the large intestinal worm, Ascaris lumbricoides, for example.
And yet, though I cannot count myself a lover of the wilderness, I do feel a sadness when many species become rare or extinct.
The Tasmanian tiger, Thylacinus cynocephalus, the largest marsupial carnivore, was hunted to extinction because it, too, was accused of harming the livestock industry of the island; and it is heart-breaking to see the footage in Hobart zoo in 1936 of the last Tasmanian tiger alive.
It had no concept of its own death of course, let alone that of the extinction of its species, but still I cannot help but feel the tragedy of it, and that the world is a slightly poorer place without such animals.
Certainly, ever since its death, many people have devoted much of their spare time, and even their lives, to trying to find survivors in the wild, as others try to prove the existence of flying saucers or the Loch Ness monster.
Though it is unlikely that I shall ever visit Tasmania again, I should rejoice if there were conclusive proof of the continued existence, rather than just alleged sightings, of the Tasmanian tiger.
What is interesting, however, from the psychological point of view is that those who think that the dingo is a valuable part of Australia’s native fauna and want to preserve it tend to argue for its being a separate species, while those who think it is a pest argue for it being merely a dog gone wrong, as it were.
Strictly speaking, the question of whether or not it is a separate species should have nothing to do with whether or not you like it and wish to preserve it. But a matter that is supposedly one of fact, and fact alone, is subordinated in many people’s mind to one of value.
It ought to be possible to think that the dingo is a dog gone wrong and wish to preserve it, or alternatively that it is a separate species and wish (as I do with Ascaris lumbricoides) to eliminate it. But it is not usual to do so.
The effect of our wishes exerts a powerful influence on our beliefs of what is actually the case. Probably this is an inevitable feature of human psychology. It is only by being aware of it that we can avoid its dangers.
Theodore Dalrymple is a retired doctor. He is contributing editor of the City Journal of New York and the author of 30 books, including “Life at the Bottom.” His latest book is “Embargo and Other Stories.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A woman wearing a protective face mask reading ''dictatorship'' protests against government restrictions, although the rally has been disallowed by a regional court, amid the CCP virus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, in Bremen, Germany, on Dec. 5, 2020. (Fabian Bimmer/Reuters)
German Judge Declares Mask Mandates Illegal and Harmful to Children
Commentary
As reported in The Epoch Times, the Oklahoma legislature recently passed a bill banning mask mandates in schools. In Germany, mask mandates in schools have also been under the microscope, with an extraordinary judgment given in April highlighting the issue.
On April 8, the Weimar District Court banned two schools in that district from enforcing mask mandates, social distancing requirements, and rapid COVID-19 testing on their students. The court also ordered the schools to no longer conduct distance learning.
The decision followed legal action by the mother of two students, aged 8 and 14, respectively, at one of the schools, who argued that such measures were causing physical, psychological, and pedagogical harm to her children, as well as constituting an infringement of her children and parental rights under German and international law.
The judge, Christian Dettmar, upheld this argument (pdf), noting that mask mandates and social distancing requirements for children weren’t only causing the harm mentioned above, but were in direct violation of Articles 2 and 6 of the German Constitution, which guarantee the rights to freedom of individual development, education, and parental assistance.
Members of the police stand guard as people protest against the German government measures to curb the spread of COVID-19, as the lower house of parliament discusses amendments to the Infection Protection Act, in Berlin, on April 21, 2021. (Christian Mang/Reuters)
Accordingly, the judge held that the anti-COVID measures deployed weren’t proportional to the threat posed. This was in accordance with proportionality principles enshrined in Articles 20 and 28 of the German Constitution.
The court also referred to an October 2020 WHO Bulletin which featured a study by renowned medical science expert John Ioannidis, who found the death rate for coronavirus to be 0.23 percent, the equivalent of a moderate influenza epidemic.
In examining expert medical; scientific, including biological; and psychological evidence, the judge found the use of masks and social distancing had no effect whatsoever on reducing infection, and cast serious doubt on the ability of asymptomatic persons—particularly children—to spread the virus. This was the first time evidence was presented to a German court regarding the scientific reasonableness and necessity of the prescribed anti-virus measures.
Dettmar found that the anti-virus measures posed a danger to the mental, physical, or psychological well-being of the children to such an extent that significant harm could be foreseen with a high degree of certainty. He wrote:
“The children are not only endangered in their mental, physical, and spiritual well-being by the obligation to wear face masks during school hours and to keep their distance from each other and from other persons, but, in addition, they are already being harmed. At the same time, this violates numerous rights of the children and their parents under the law, the constitution, and international conventions.
“This applies in particular to the right to free development of the personality and to physical integrity from Article 2 of the (German Constitution) as well as to the right from Article 6 of the (Constitution) to upbringing and care by the parents (also with regard to measures for preventive health care and ‘objects’ to be carried by children).”
The judge agreed with the experts’ assessment that masks weren’t useful for viral protection, that PCR tests couldn’t detect a disease-causing infection with necessary certainty, and that asymptomatic transmission played no detectable role epidemiologically with respect to coronavirus.
On the contrary, masks would have a negative impact on children’s health due to handling-related contamination. Testing in school classes would be unnecessary, harmful, and extremely problematic in terms of data protection.
In conclusion, he stated, “100,000 elementary school students would have to put up with all the side effects of wearing masks for a week in order to prevent just one infection per week. To call this result merely disproportionate would be a wholly inadequate description. Rather, it shows that the state legislature regulating this area has fallen into a factual disconnect that has reached historic proportions.”
Following this sensational decision, Dettmar had his house, office, and car searched by police, and mobile phone confiscated.
The Weimar Administrative Court—a separate court with no jurisdiction over the District Court—issued a statement in response to the ruling, describing Dettmar’s decision as unlawful—without giving reasons—and reiterated the importance of the mask mandate.
Do the actions of the police, court, and authorities suggest that the edifice of virus restrictions could be exposed as lacking proper epidemiological foundations?
Rocco Loiacono is a senior lecturer at Curtin University Law School in Perth, Australia, and is a translator from Italian to English. His work on translation, linguistics, and law has been widely published in peer-reviewed journals. This article was compiled in collaboration with Eva Wiesmann.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.US Seafood Ban of Chinese Company Over Forced Labor Is Not Enough
Commentary
The United States on May 28 banned seafood imports from Dalian Ocean Fishing Company in China, due to evidence of the utilization of forced labor. The evidence includes four dead Indonesian fishermen on Dalian ships and secretly recorded video of their coffins being thrown overboard. Other footage that indicates forced labor at sea includes a fisher too weak to walk, who reportedly later died and was thrown overboard near Somalia. One fisher was found dead in a freezer in July 2020. The next month, three Indonesians were filmed begging for rescue from a Chinese fishing boat.
According to a State Department press statement, “U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the Department of Homeland Security, issued Withhold Release Orders (WROs) for seafood products imported from the Dalian Ocean Fishing Company, a firm in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) for which there is credible evidence of the use of forced labor to harvest its seafood, primarily tuna.”
“As a result, the United States is prohibiting the import of seafood products from this company,” the statement continued.
This is not the first time that the U.S. State Department addressed China’s use of forced labor in its fishing industry. The Department’s 2020 Human Rights Report also described such forced labor, including among migrant workers in China. “These workers are forced to work 18 to 22 hours a day, often in illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing,” according to the statement. “They are prevented from leaving their ships while facing hunger, restricted communication, inadequate medical care, degrading living and working conditions, physical abuse, and debt-based coercion.”
China’s distant-water fishing fleet also utilizes forced labor, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. “The United States will promote accountability for those who use forced labor to exploit individuals for profit, and we will work with our international partners to ensure that the voiceless are heard and protected,” the statement ended.
Fishermen are waiting to move fish to shore in Dalian, Liaoning Province on May 21, 2013. The term “Garden City” that has come in vogue in China, started in Dalian. Another more accurate description for Dalian is that the city resembles Europe, while the surrounding rural area resembles Africa. (AFP/AFP/Getty Images)
Last year, Greenpeace covered the forced labor of Indonesians in Dalian’s fishing fleet. “Protecting [Indonesian] citizens means ensuring all players in the industry are held accountable—the manning agencies that are exploiting vulnerable workers for a quick buck; seafood companies and retailers turning a blind eye to forced labor and human trafficking being committed in their supply chain; and the Indonesian government’s continued inaction on the need for proper global identification, and monitoring and surveillance on global distant water fishing (DWF) fleets where migrant fishers are being employed.”
But even these measures are insufficient, and could introduce market distortions that harm poor migrant fishermen. The State Department’s punitive measures against Dalian are in the right direction, but banning a single Chinese company’s catch from U.S. markets is symbolic at best.
Dalian Ocean Fishing will find other ready consumers to buy its tuna. Perhaps it will change its name, or export through a reseller, thus continuing to sell forced labor seafood into the U.S. market. Real action against forced labor in China’s fishing fleet requires tougher measures, including broader economic sanctions against China’s fishing fleet as a whole, a global ban on Dalian’s fish catch, or if necessary, the international confiscation of the Dalian ships that are proven to utilize forced labor.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Left-leaning academics once championed ideological diversity, for that was the route to disseminate and legitimize their own views. Now that they have captured the university, viewpoint diversity is perceived as dangerous. (Spiroview Inc/Shutterstock)
At University, Ideological Dissent Is Not Welcome
Commentary
Lisa Keogh, a law student at Abertay University in Dundee, Scotland, was attending an online class when she was asked to express her opinion. The question was, what is a woman? In a BBC interview on May 18, Keogh said that because of her answer—that women have female reproductive organs—the university is investigating her for discrimination. Depending upon the outcome, she may face disciplinary action.
At modern universities, ideological dissent is unwelcome.
In a study released in March, Eric Kaufmann, a politics professor at the University of London, quantified the intolerance. The academy, of course, overwhelmingly leans to the left. In some departments, the ideological spectrum spans from moderately progressive to over-the-cliff neo-Marxist critical race theorist.
Kaufmann surveyed thousands of academics across North America and Britain and found that a significant proportion discriminate against conservatives in hiring, promotion, grants, and publications. Well over half of the relatively few right-leaning academics perceived a hostile work environment and acknowledged self-censoring in research and teaching. Particularly in social sciences and humanities, where “political views are manifest in people’s work and there is a lopsided political skew,” Kaufmann wrote, “the result is a discriminatory effect against conservatives and other intellectual minorities.”
Universities once imagined that they were engaged in a search for truth. Variety in ideological and philosophical perspectives is essential to that mission. Discovery is possible when it is safe to question orthodoxy in an environment of open inquiry. Setting competing views against each other generates ideas and exposes errors.
One of John Stuart Mill’s most revered passages reads, “He who knows only his own side of the case knows little of that. His reasons may be good, and no one may have been able to refute them. But if he is equally unable to refute the reasons on the opposite side, if he does not so much as know what they are, he has no ground for preferring either opinion …. Nor is it enough that he should hear the opinions of adversaries from his own teachers, presented as they state them, and accompanied by what they offer as refutations. He must be able to hear them from persons who actually believe them … he must know them in their most plausible and persuasive form.”
In 2016, Jonathan Haidt, a professor of psychology and ethics at New York University’s Stern School of Business, argued that at many universities, the search for truth has been replaced by a quest for social justice. These two missions are incompatible, Haidt wrote: “At Truth U, there is no such thing as blasphemy. Bad ideas get refuted, not punished. But at SJU, there are many blasphemy laws — there are ideas, theories, facts, and authors that one cannot use.” The patron saint of social justice universities, according to Haidt, is not John Stuart Mill but Karl Marx, who wrote, “The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways; the point is to change it.” Our universities are now dedicated less to dispassionate investigation than to political activism.
The previous year, Haidt and two colleagues, concerned that a lack of ideological diversity was having a negative impact on the quality of research in their disciplines, put together a website and blog, called Heterodox Academy, as a place for social science academics to discuss challenges inside their universities. HxA, as it is known, has since grown into an international, non-partisan organization of over 5,000 professors, administrators, and students whose mission is to promote viewpoint diversity and constructive disagreement as the foundations of the academic enterprise. Its vision, as expressed on its website, is “an academy eager to welcome professors, students, and speakers who approach problems and questions from different points of view.” As its tagline says, “Great minds don’t always think alike.”
Modern universities rarely embrace this vision. Instead, their strategic plans and mission statements typically identify a set of political values and goals such as equity, diversity, and inclusion. “Diversity” means variation in skin colour, not in ideas. Ideological diversity is anathema to these causes. Left-leaning academics once championed ideological diversity, for that was the route to disseminate and legitimize their own views. Now that they have captured the university, viewpoint diversity is perceived as dangerous.
At my law school, our faculty board recently rejected by a vote of 33 to 4 a proposal to add viewpoint diversity as a value and goal to its strategic plan. Viewpoint diversity, along with HxA itself, was said to be an “alt-right ploy” that might weaponize those who do not agree that society should be transformed in accordance with the values expressed in the plan.
Viewpoint diversity is not the same thing as “academic freedom.” Academic freedom means that faculty members can express their views without interference or censure. Viewpoint diversity means that the institution aspires to variety in philosophical and ideological perspectives. Academic freedom does not produce viewpoint diversity if most academics are already singing the same song. Universities can safely endorse academic freedom as an important institutional value without endangering the status quo. Commitment to viewpoint diversity, on the other hand, threatens the prevailing consensus because it might oblige universities to hire new professors of conservative, classically liberal, and/or libertarian persuasions.
The alternative to viewpoint diversity is an academic culture of homogeneity and conformity. Universities have become political institutions that prefer fidelity to the prevailing ideological view. Students who seek education rather than indoctrination should beware.
Bruce Pardy is professor of law at Queen’s University, and a member of the Heterodox Academy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Book Excerpt: ‘Wilful Blindness: How a Network of Narcos, Tycoons, and CCP Agents Infiltrated the West’
Book Excerpt
Killing the Golden Goose
“He loses his chips and stalks around like a caged tiger for a minute and then rushes out of the casino.”
In 2010, while Canada celebrated the Winter Olympics in Vancouver and the city was heralded as a global model of prosperity and livability—a small group of Gaming Policy and Enforcement Branch (GPEB) and RCMP investigators were in a different mood. The way Calvin Chrustie saw it, Vancouver was sort of like one of those exotically coloured tropical fish. On the surface, it’s beautiful. But the flesh is toxic.
So in Vancouver, under the sparkling veneer of wealth and health, torrents of dark money from China were flooding the casinos and empty condo towers. A new financial system based on secretive transactions had become the city’s economic centre of gravity. The two dominant sources of liquidity at opposite poles: drug money and capital flight from mainland China.
In a Nov. 24, 2010, letter to the Lottery Corp. executives, GPEB’s director of casino investigations, Derek Dickson, wrote that he was very concerned by a “dramatic increase” in suspicious cash transactions involving numerous patrons at Vancouver-area casinos. “It typically involves well-known LCT [large cash transaction] patrons that play baccarat and arrive with cash as a buy-in,” Dickson wrote. “We believe BCLC [British Columbia Lottery Corporation] needs to seek solutions to the obvious, and increasing, money-laundering that is occurring, particularly involving the flood of small denomination currency, within B.C. casinos.”
Cover of “Wilful Blindness: How a Network of Narcos, Tycoons and CCP Agents Infiltrated the West” by Sam Cooper. (Optimum Publishing International)
Dickson pointed to one particular high roller who completed $3.9 million in cash buy-ins in just eight weeks. The man, who supposedly owned coal mines in China, was one of a Big Circle Boys-linked alleged money launderer’s all-time top clients. In the two-month binge, the man used almost all $20s. Night after night, he brought in about $200,000 cash—wrapped in rubber bands in bricks of $10,000—stashed in gym bags. In one case, Sha quickly lost $330,000 playing baccarat.
A GPEB investigator who viewed the incriminating surveillance tape couldn’t get over the imagery: “He loses his chips and stalks around like a caged tiger for a minute and then rushes out of the casino.”
The man was immediately met by a car at the casino’s front door and handed “an object” from the trunk. And he walked back inside to gamble with the contents of the bag—$325,000 in casino chips. In his letter, Dickson informed the Lottery Corp. that he and GPEB director Joe Schalk had met with Inspector Barry Baxter of the RCMP’s Integrated Proceeds of Crime (IPOC) team, “and they are well aware of the issue and are seriously concerned that the casinos are being used as a method to launder large sums of money for organized crime groups.”
But the Lottery Corp. refused to accept this view. As long as these foreign baccarat high rollers presented a picture I.D., claimed to be involved in a business of some sort, and had some history of gambling in B.C. government casinos, the Lottery Corp. considered the cash clean. No questions asked.
And in an argument that particularly galled GPEB, the Lottery Corp. asserted that Chinese VIPs had a cultural preference for gambling with bags of cash—for them, cash was lucky—so it was inappropriate to invade their privacy and view duffel bags of cash with suspicion. This was the kind of stupidity that burned Schalk, a former RCMP officer. Schalk and his GPEB colleagues were getting the feeling that B.C.’s government actually welcomed dirty money from visitors who claimed to be “industrialists.”
“There could or may be a significant difference between what a person ‘states’ and what is real. Financial institutions do not simply go by way of what a person ‘states,’” Schalk wrote to Lottery Corp. executives. “B.C. Lottery Corp. has stated for years they are instituting a ‘rigorous anti-money-laundering strategy.’ However, over just the past ten months, reported incidents of suspicious currency transactions and money-laundering have more than tripled over the previous year.”
Meanwhile, Fintrac records showed the Lottery Corp. had made 37,000 large cash transaction reports—casino chip purchases of at least $10,000 per transaction (minimum $370 million)—in 2009. The large transaction reports would surge to 70,000 (over $1 billion) in 2012. And Lottery Corp. casinos would rake in $1.6 billion in gross revenue. It was almost all cash, almost all from the “upstairs” private baccarat rooms in a few casinos around Richmond and Vancouver, and the lion’s share was coming from an extremely small portion of Chinese whales.
But you could almost set your watch to it.
Every five years or so, a scandalous B.C. Lottery Corp. story would surface, and the government would have to respond to the waves of media attention.
In January 2011, a CBC story exposed the sharp divide between Dickson, Schalk, and Baxter on one side and the senior B.C. officials that Fred Pinnock, former head of B.C.’s anti-illegal gaming unit, had already clashed with on the other.
An anti-fentanyl advertisment is seen on a sidewalk in downtown Vancouver on April 11, 2017. (The Canadian Press/Jonathan Hayward)
In just three months in 2010 there were 90 large cash transactions at the River Rock Casino in Richmond and the Starlight in New Westminster, CBC reported, for a total of $8 million. And while the dollar value of suspicious transactions had tripled in B.C. Lottery Corp. casinos in 2010, the stats had dropped or remained the same in casinos across the rest of Canada. In the Starlight Casino, in the spring of 2010, GPEB reports showed that a man carrying a bag with $1.2 million in casino chips walked in and immediately asked staff to convert the chips to cash. The VIP wanted to fly to a Montreal casino but he was concerned that customs officials would be suspicious of his luggage—about 115 pounds worth of paper bills. He was the biggest gambler in B.C. at the time, according to GPEB’s report. So he requested a confirmation letter from the casino saying the money was a casino payout. And the staff gave the man his letter. And here’s the stunner. Senior casino staff knew the man was supplied by a barred loan shark who was a suspect in the Big Circle Boys network, linked to cash deliveries and underground banking with the biggest baccarat players in Richmond. And an RCMP officer later looked at Dickson’s case and said the casino had effectively handed the man a “get out of jail free card” if the police tried to investigate him for money laundering.
Days later, a gambler walked into River Rock Casino with $460,000 in $20 bills and bought chips. The casino reported the large cash transaction, but noted “none of [the man’s] actions are suspicious.”
But that same month, the Lottery Corp’s new CEO, Jim Lightbody, didn’t seem at all concerned about risks presented by the alleged money launderer and his VIP clients.
In a Victoria Times Colonist report headlined, “High Rollers, Betting $100,000 a Hand, Boost Revenue for B.C. Casinos.” the newspaper reported BCLC expected to boost profits in 2015 “thanks to an influx of high-rolling gamblers from mainland China.”
The conclusion was obvious. Brad Desmarais, who was then BCLC’s vice president of casino and community gaming and is currently the COO, and his bosses did not want to confront the suspected source of funds in Chinese underground banking.
Lightbody said with lottery sales softening, “the Crown corporation and its partner casinos on the Lower Mainland have focused on attracting wealthy ‘industrialists and businessmen’ keen to play baccarat for up to $100,000 a hand.”
And the strategy enabled BCLC to surpass its target of $1.2 billion in net income from March 2014 to March 2015 “due to an increase in high-limit table revenue.”
“Lightbody said casinos have increased the number of private rooms or ‘salons’ and raised table limits to $100,000 from $5,000 a hand,” the Times Colonist reported. Lightbody said the baccarat salons mostly catered to Chinese VIPs who commonly bought in for $200,000 per casino visit and “prefer dealing in cash.”
The RCMP logo is seen outside an RCMP building in Surrey, B.C., on April 13, 2018. (Darryl Dyck/The Canadian Press)
“So they do come in with bags full of money for their buy-ins,” Lightbody was quoted. “We know them very well. We know their source of wealth. We know all their personal information; they need to share that with us for regulatory reasons. These people are multimillionaires and, in some cases, billionaires.” And Lightbody was similarly effusive in a speech to staff at Lottery Corp. headquarters in Kamloops.
It didn’t sit well with Mike Hiller, who was not shy about speaking truth to power. Since the 1990s, very few Canadian investigators have had a better handle on North America’s heroin and fentanyl kingpins. Hiller was there for the major heroin importation busts in the 1990s in Vancouver and Victoria. He was there in Thailand, acting as a police liaison for investigations of the Canadian Big Circle Boys who would become bigger than El Chapo.
Hiller wrote an email to his direct boss, Desmarais, a former RCMP anti-gang officer. He believed that Desmarais and his superiors were looking for “alternative” explanations for the loan shark cash—rather than drug proceeds—and he had written to Desmarais about it before.
“I wasn’t surprised during our meeting in Kamloops to hear that we experienced greater profits last year from high stakes table games,” Hiller wrote on March 24, 2015. “This seems to be directly related to the increase in large cash buy-ins and suspicious transactions that I noticed for table games during the same period.”
The subject line of Hiller’s email cited his 2014 I-Trak report. Always the diligent investigator, he referred Desmarais to the evidence. The seminal report explained exactly where Big Circle Boys chiefs and the whales got their cash and how it was repaid in China.
“All but one of the Asian persons mentioned in the report have been the targets of a series of major drug investigations since the 1990s,” Hiller wrote to Desmarais. “I believe the persons mentioned in this report are responsible for an abundance of cash being supplied to our VIP players. They, and likely many more like them, have connections with our Asian VIP players on both sides of the Pacific. The familiar names we know to be delivering cash to our casinos are merely runners who are easily replaced. The volume of cash deliveries is a huge reputational risk.”
“Thanks, Mike,” Desmarais replied. “I do recall reading this before. Obviously, the drug connection is a huge concern, and we are attempting to engage a police response with respect to the main players in your report.”
“But I am resistant to branding all-cash facilitators as dealing in proceeds of crime,” Desmarais continued. “In my past life, we encountered many underground bankers who used other sources of cash. The purchase of real estate, luxury goods and cars is accelerating in the Lower Mainland, not diminishing.”
The conclusion was obvious. Desmarais and his bosses did not want to confront the suspected source of funds in Chinese underground banking. They were looking at the scales of the exotic fish, dazzled by its beauty. They ignored the poisoned flesh inside.
Excerpt from the book “Wilful Blindness: How a Network of Narcos, Tycoons, and CCP Agents Infiltrated the West,” by award-winning investigative journalist Sam Cooper, available from the publisher or local book retailers. Excerpt has been edited for style and some names have been removed. Published with the permission of Optimum Publishing International (OpiBooks.com).
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Consumers Should Be Warned About China’s Rebranded Hikvision Cameras
Commentary
A soldier, kneeling on a mountainside, tested a Hikvision drone-jamming rifle in March. Hikvision’s website carried a report, based on a joint study with weapons experts and commanders of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), detailing how its technology could add functionality to China’s tanks, missiles, and artillery.
According to surveillance technology experts IP Video Market (IPVM), Hikvision “advertised dozens of machine-learning jobs at a military police base in Xinjiang, which banned Uyghurs from applying.”
When The Wall Street Journal contacted Hikvision for comment recently, “the report was taken down from Hikvision’s website for several days this month,” according to the Journal. A Hikvision spokesman told the Journal, “Not now, and not ever, has Hikvision conducted research and development work for Chinese military applications.” As should be clear from the above, that’s a lie. And, the company is deeply linked to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and state apparatus, which is inextricably networked with its military.
Hikvision, founded in 2001, has its headquarters in Hangzhou, China. It employs more than 42,000 people, has annual revenues of almost $10 billion, and a market capitalization of $96 billion. It grew from a Chinese government lab. Hikvision’s largest shareholder is a subsidiary of China Electronics Technology Group Corp (CETC), a state-owned conglomerate.
Some Hikvision cameras can see through fog and pollution, and have night vision, heat map, artificial intelligence, and license-, facial-, and behavior-recognition technologies. Some are explosion-proof, mounted on drones or the undercarriages of vehicles for their surveillance, or alert authorities to large crowds or protests. One is equipped with microphones to automatically zero in on noise in its vicinity.
The Department of Homeland Security flagged Hikvision for a cybersecurity loophole in 2017 that made approximately 200 camera models easily accessible to hackers. Up to tens of millions were shipped, according to an estimate by IPVM.
Yet, the United States is full of Hikvision products, including security cameras for use in businesses, residences, and by police departments. Hikvision sells its rebranded products through U.S. distributors, meaning that many buyers have no idea they are purchasing from an insecure Chinese company.
Not only do Hikvision cameras surveil the United States and its allies, but the company hires Americans and Canadians for its research and development. Two such offices opened in Montreal and Silicon Valley in 2017. Local politicians trying to increase jobs in their communities probably didn’t complain much when Hikvision dangled plans to hire 800 workers in North America by 2022. We sure do sell ourselves cheap.
While the U.S. General Services Administration removed Hikvision from its $66 billion in procurement offerings to the U.S. government in 2017, and a U.S. military base removed Hikvision cameras from a Missouri military base recently, it’s unclear whether or not the cameras continue in other sensitive locations.
The Memphis, Tennessee, police used them for street surveillance, and Hikvision cameras watched over electronics in the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan, until IPVM discovered and published the U.S. procurement order. Apparently, government purchasers hadn’t notified State Department security officials, and our Indymedia is doing a better job than the federal government of finding (and thus encouraging the stripping out of) China’s wiring in our sensitive government installations.
If the United States wants good cybersecurity against China, our government is going to have to step up its game. The same applies to our allies, as Hikvision is the world’s biggest supplier of video surveillance equipment globally. French airports, an Irish port, and sites in Iran and Brazil used Hikvision. In 2016, Hikvision purchased Britain’s Pyronix, an intrusion-alarm specialist, for just 16 million euros. Hikvision’s global market share of surveillance equipment grew to 21.4 percent in 2016 from 8 percent in 2012.
Picture of Hikvision cameras in an electronic mall in Beijing on May 24, 2019. (Fred Dufour/AFP via Getty Images)
Hikvision’s largest shareholder is Hong Kong billionaire Gong Hongjia, and some of its executives are Communist Party members whom CETC, Hikvision’s main state-owned shareholder, also employs. Gong provided capital for Hikvision’s founding, along with a government-backed lab that initially took a 51 percent controlling share. The company gets huge Chinese government contracts to surveil cities and events, including $1.2 billion worth of “safe city” contracts in Chongqing, population 31 million. Do you feel safer as a result? I don’t.
In 2017, Hikvision’s Pu Shiliang held dual leadership positions as both the company’s head of research and as a leader in a Hangzhou lab run by China’s police force, the Ministry of Public Security. The goal of China’s increasing surveillance state is to identify lawbreakers and influence behavior; Hikvision is its enabler.
The U.S. Defense Department no longer purchases from Hikvision and designated the company on its military list, preventing Americans from investing in its securities. A 2018 law bars the U.S. government from purchasing goods and services from the company, and the Commerce Department blacklisted Hikvision and other Chinese AI companies in 2019. But as Hikvision products continue to creep into our homes and businesses through rebranding, these reforms don’t go far enough.
The 18th-century British philosopher Jeremy Bentham, who designed a “panopticon” in which a single guard could surveil an entire prison ranged in a circle around him, would have recognized present-day China as the dystopian development of his prison reform, applied to those outside the prison walls. China today is that reverse panopticon, in which the intellectual prison of the CCP surveils the world.
If Hikvision can lie about its ties to the Chinese military, other conglomerates from China can, too. Huawei, Xiaomi, TikTok, Zoom, Alibaba, and State Grid are all China-linked technology companies that branch into our homes, businesses, and even government offices. As they can rebrand their products and components for sale in our public and private spaces, consumers and government procurement experts aren’t always aware that with their uninformed consumer choices, they may be opening the door to China’s police state.
That should change, with mandated warning labels on all technology products that include components or software from China. The U.S. and allied governments must take a tougher stand against China’s Big Tech to ensure our privacy, cybersecurity, and the future of democracy.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Container ships sit in berths at the Port of Los Angeles, Calif. on October 15, 2014. (Lucy Nicholson/File Photo)
Competing Infrastructure Pronouncements Use Large, Mostly Nonsensical Numbers
Commentary
A group of four Republican senators on May 27 unveiled a $928 billion infrastructure spending plan.
It was in response to U.S. President Joe Biden administration’s cutting about $74 billion from its proposed $2.3 trillion infrastructure proposal which, according to The Epoch Times’ analysis, was only intended to spend 21 percent on traditional infrastructure.
The administration now proposes $39 billion less for roads and bridges and $35 billion less for broadband.
The Biden administration has also moved some $480 billion of its proposed “infrastructure” spending into bills focused on research and development spending, or industrial policy. Therefore, it claims its “infrastructure” proposal is now only $1.7 trillion.
After adding back that $480 billion and making the adjustments for the actual text of the White House briefing document, The Epoch Times’ analysis shows that the administration is still proposing spending $2.3 trillion of the original $2.374 trillion proposed.
For their part, much of what the Republicans proposed May 27 would likely have been spent anyway.
Their own “Republican Roadmap” document, the four senators admitted, “includes [a] $91 billion increase over baseline spending for roads and bridges and a $48 billion increase over baseline spending for water infrastructure …. It also includes a one-time increase of $25 billion for airports and $65 billion for broadband… a $22 billion increase over baseline spending for passenger and freight rail and an additional $6 billion for water storage in the West.”
In other words, the Republicans’ so-called $928 billion proposal is actually offering only about $257 billion additional infrastructure funding, versus what was likely to be spent anyway.
Maybe as at least one glimmer of sunshine through these murky public negotiations: both sides now agree that $65 billion should be spent on increasing access to broadband.
Tim Shaler is a professional investor and economist based in Southern California. He is a regular columnist for The Epoch Times, where he exclusively provides some of his original economic analysis.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The Commission We Really Need
Commentary
Senate Republicans refused to go along with the House and establish a commission to investigate the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, and more than 100 police officers injured. By a vote of 54 to 35, the bill to form the “bipartisan” commission failed. But who really believes that it would have been truly bipartisan? In Washington, virtually everything is partisan.
Wall Street Journal columnist Gerald Seib attempted to make the case for a commission, even while acknowledging that trials, investigations by journalists and other information about the incident will eventually be known. He seems to think a commission made up of politicians will find credibility with most Americans. Probably the opposite will be true.
How about a commission to examine the source of the anger that produced the attack? The sources aren’t conservative talk radio or cable TV. They are merely conduits for many Americans who are fed up with their government and want it to return to the boundaries established by the Founders.
While violence and destruction were not justified on Jan. 6, or at any other time, the riot might go a long way toward heading off future incidents if our leaders understood the depth of feeling held by those rioters who believe their country is being taken away from them without their consent.
We are told we must pay more taxes to a government that has misspent our money for years on programs that don’t work and to help politicians stay in office. We must live within our means, but government is spending us into unsustainable debt.
We must obey all laws or suffer civil or criminal penalties, yet we see on news channels (but not all, which is another issue) countless people breaking the law to illegally cross our southern border. The IRS estimates that only 50 percent to 75 percent of those here without authority pay federal, state, or local taxes. Who foots the remainder of the bill? If we crossed illegally into other countries, especially Mexico, we would surely wind up in a jail cell.
We watch as public schools teach critical race theory as part of what some consider historical revisionism and invite drag queens to middle-school Career Day.
The Pentagon demolished the Trump-era ban on transgender people in the military. They can now freely serve. I have yet to hear how this will promote unit cohesion, help us win wars and compete with the militaries of Russia and China, whose priorities are much different.
We spend record amounts of money on public education and yet American kids are behind Russia and China and many other countries in important subjects, such as math and science.
Notice there are no proposals for a commission to investigate Black Lives Matter, or the large amounts of dark money used by both parties flooding in to influence our elections. No, it is only people viewed as the “extreme right” who should be subject to investigations.
There are numerous quotes, even books, about nations that have crumbled under the weight of their own self-indulgence. None surpass the statement by our 16th president. Abraham Lincoln said: “From whence shall we expect the approach of danger? Shall some trans-Atlantic military giant step the earth and crush us at a blow? Never. All the armies of Europe and Asia … could not by force take a drink from the Ohio River or make a track on the Blue Ridge in the trial of a thousand years. No, if destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we will live forever or die by suicide.”
If a commission looking into what fueled the Jan. 6 riot is established, that quote would explain our suicidal tendencies. It might also explain the anger many feel.
John Calvin Thomas has been a syndicated columnist, author, and radio commentator for more than 35 years. His latest book is “America’s Expiration Date: The Fall of Empires and Superpowers and the Future of the United States.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.President Ronald Reagan addresses the people of West Berlin at the base of the Brandenburg Gate on June 12, 1987. The President's words could also be heard on the eastern side of the wall. "Tear down this wall!" he said to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. His address that day is considered by many to have affirmed the beginning of the end of the Cold War and the fall of communism. (Mike Sargent/AFP via Getty Images)
New or Old Cold War?
Commentary
Over the past two years there has been much talk of a “New Cold War” possibly now breaking out between the United States and China. The truth, however, is that it’s not new. It’s the same old Cold War just being conducted in new ways.
The notion of a new Cold War arises from the widespread belief that the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union ended the war in victory for the free world. This view was strengthened by the 1979 establishment of formal relations between the United States and Communist China and by what appeared to the outside world to be an economic policy turn by Beijing onto the capitalist road. Indeed, under the Mao Zedong regime, many Chinese had been jailed and even executed for being “capitalist roaders.” Now it seemed the whole regime was becoming a capitalist roader. At least that was the impression of most free world observers.
These events sparked euphoria in America and the rest of the free world. Indeed, so much so that leading political philosopher Francis Fukuyama wrote a book entitled “The End of History and the Last Man.” By that title he was referencing Marxist teaching which predicted the establishment of the dictatorship of the proletariat as the final stage of dialectics. But Fukuyama was saying that the end is democracy and human rights not dictatorship by any class.
This was all very comforting and relaxing for America and the rest of the free world. Indeed, as China began to welcome foreign investment and to open its markets to imports from abroad, a euphoria came over the free world in the form of an expectation that free trade and the impact of market forces in China would inevitably lead to its ultimate political democratization. President Bill Clinton laughed when told that China was trying to censor the Internet and said it would be “like trying to nail Jello to the wall.” President George W. Bush said that free trade inevitably carries with it the seeds of democracy. Indeed, it was the expectation that globalization would liberalize and democratize Chinese politics that convinced the free world countries to admit China to the World Trade Organization in 2001.
A man walks on the bund in front of the financial district of Pudong in Shanghai, China, on March 9, 2016. (Aly Song/Reuters)
But were America and the rest of the free world seeing reality or were they being deceived, or, worse, were they deceiving themselves?
In the wake of the death of Mao, the Chinese economy was primitive and barely feeding the people. Deng Xiaoping and the other party leaders debated what to do. Deng pushed for some opening to market forces, famously saying that “to get rich is wonderful.” Other leaders such as Li Peng opposed introduction of market forces for fear that it would lead to revival of the rich, bourgeois classes. In response, Deng famously said that “of course, if we open the windows a few flies will enter.” But he was confident that the Communist Party could control the flies and eventually kill them.
In this context, it must be remembered that a major force driving China for the past 150 years had been to rectify the great humiliation visited upon the country by the western protagonists of the opium wars and by the revitalized Japanese empire of the early 20th century. Sun Yat-sen had voiced this sense of helplessness in saying at one point that “China is nothing but a slate of loose sand.” Both the KMT (Kuomintang) under Chiang Kai-shek and the CCP under Mao Zedong had sought to recover China’s ancient pride and power. Indeed, when Mao made his famous “China has stood up” speech in 1949 one wonders if Chiang, then in lonely exile in Taipei, might have had a moment of empathy with his old adversary.
Western audiences have some difficulty in understanding this awful sense of humiliation on the part of the Chinese. After all, two of China’s greatest dynasties, the Yuan and the Qing, were not Chinese, but Mongol and Manchurian. The western countries had never occupied and directly ruled China as had the Mongols and the Manchus. Why, they ask, was complete conquest preferable among the Chinese to occasional outside interference from the West? What they don’t realize is that while the Mongols and Manchus physically conquered China, they in turn had been conquered by Chinese civilization and ruled through the pre-existing bureaucratic structure based on the imperial examination. Thus, unlike the Asian peoples over whom China’s civilization had loomed as superior for ages, the newcomers from the West viewed China not only as weak, but as technologically and culturally inferior. This was a national insult that demanded redress.
From its beginning, the CCP aimed not only to recover China’s full sovereignty and independence but to restore the country to its long-accustomed position of the globally hegemonic Middle Kingdom. Deng may have been more flexible than Mao in terms of the tools and economic policies he would use, but his and the CCP’s aims were not different. Indeed, in discussing the international scene after the massacre of students demonstrating in Tiananmen Square on June 4, 1989, Deng spoke of a “new Cold War.”
Hundreds of thousands of Chinese gather in Tiananmen Square around a 10-meter replica of the Statue of Liberty (C), called the Goddess of Democracy, demanding democracy despite martial law in Beijing, on June 2, 1989. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of protesters were killed by China’s military on June 3 and 4, 1989, as communist leaders ordered an end to six weeks of unprecedented democracy protests in the heart of the Chinese capital. (Catherine Henriette/AFP via Getty Images)
In that context, it is clear China has long aimed at achieving maximum self-sufficiency and global leadership. As early as 1993, China began constructing the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System to duplicate the U.S. GPS and European Galileo systems despite having full access to both the other systems. The construction of the Great Firewall in 1997 to separate the Chinese Internet from the World Wide Web and the barring of companies like Google, Amazon, and Facebook from the Chinese market were clear declarations of Cold War. The CCP did not really accept full globalization despite constantly telling the annual Davos meeting that it did. Indeed, Beijing created its own counterpoint to Davos with the Boao Forum.
The announcement in 2015 of the Made in China 2025 policy was effectively a declaration of Cold War against the principles of the World Trade Organization of which China is a member and against the high technology industries of the free world. This has been accompanied by the quasi-militarization of the South China Sea, rapid expansion of the Chinese armed forces, and extensive hacking attacks on free world governments and corporations, and pressure on U.S. professional basketball coaches not to speak about Hong Kong and arbitrary, illegal barring of imports from countries like Australia that have called for an international investigation of the origins of COVID-19.
For 40 years, the United States and other free world countries spoke of China becoming “a responsible stakeholder in the rules-based, global order.” In March 2018, The Economist magazine cover story announced that the Free World had “Made the Wrong Bet on China.” It did not want to become a stakeholder in a global order established by others. It wanted to establish its own authoritarian world order.
The fact is that the world is not in a new Cold War. The old Cold War actually never ended.
Clyde Prestowitz is an Asia and globalization expert, a veteran U.S. trade negotiator, and presidential adviser. He was the leader of the first U.S. trade mission to China in 1982 and has served as an adviser to Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama. As counselor to the secretary of commerce in the Reagan administration, Mr. Prestowitz headed negotiations with Japan, South Korea, and China. Mr. Prestowitz’s newest book is “The World Turned Upside Down: China, America and the Struggle for Global Leadership,” published in January 2021.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Spanish Civil Guard policemen stand guard outside China's ICBC bank offices in Madrid, Spain, on Feb. 17, 2016. Spanish police searched offices of China's ICBC bank in downtown Madrid and arrested six people as part of a money laundering and tax fraud probe. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco)
China’s $70 Trillion Up for Grabs: A Risk to Democracy
Commentary
Western banks are hungry for access to China’s household investable assets, which will exceed $70 trillion by 2030, according to Goldman Sachs. China’s households will reportedly allocate more than half that amount to mutual funds, securities, and wealth management products. In 2020 alone, China’s broader wealth market amounted to $18.9 trillion. According to China Everbright Bank and the Boston Consulting Group, that figure increased by as much as 10 percent from 2019.
As China claims to liberalize its financial system, western banks are rushing to cash in on China’s trillions in consumer savings. On May 25, the Financial Times reported that Goldman Sachs won “initial approval” from China’s regulatory authorities for a joint venture (JV) with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) to conduct wealth management. ICBC, one of China’s largest banks, will hold 49 percent of the venture, with Goldman Sachs Asset Management holding a 51 percent “controlling” share.
An employee counts money at a branch of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC) in Huaibei, China, on July 26, 2015. (ChinaFotoPress/Getty Images)
The word “controlling” is in quotes because ICBC is state-owned, and the success of Goldman’s 51 percent of the venture will continue to be dependent upon Beijing’s approval. If the venture falls out of favor, for whatever reason, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) can through regulations, taxation, or control of the local banking network, make it impossible to operate profitably.
The CCP often pressures businesses, even foreign-owned public businesses, to include Chinese nationals on their boards of directors, and the CCP had cells within about 70 percent of China’s 1.86 million private businesses in 2017. That figure was “destined to grow” according to The Diplomat.
“Even if Chinese Company Law regulates the establishment of Party units in foreign invested enterprises (both JVs and fully owned) without requiring governance roles for their members, recent trends in officials’ attitude, which are oriented toward the demand for more power, indicate accelerating interference,” according to The Diplomat. “That suggests that these positions are not merely symbolic, but rather an eventual source of political pressure around the boardroom.”
The CCP has leverage over international business because it controls their access to China’s massive market. The Financial Times article yesterday quoted a Goldman head who sees China’s market as “one of the world’s largest, fastest-growing, wealth management opportunities.”
So, Goldman will be incentivized to comply with CCP demands. There is no guarantee that the bank will not be responsive to a CCP cell within its own venture in China, for example. That could include anything from pressure to pay higher taxes within China, to pressure for political favors delivered in the United States. The CCP seeks to lower tariffs on China’s goods in the United States, and wants lighter export controls on sensitive technologies that Beijing seeks to acquire. Goldman is optimally positioned for such pressure, as many of its alumni become Treasury Department officials in Washington, and Treasury has extensive input into tariff and export control decisions. Treasury is also known as being consistently soft on China, including, according to one source, on the issue of the Uyghur genocide.
Steve Mnuchin, when he was secretary of the treasury for President Trump, was known to be one of the softest-on-China of Trump’s cabinet. Mnuchin and his father were both Goldman alums. Gary Cohn, a Goldman alum, served as National Economic Council head under Trump.
Other former treasury secretaries (and their years of service) with financial links to Goldman include Henry Fowler (1965–1968), Robert Rubin (1995–1999), Larry Summers (1999–2001), and Hank Paulson (2006–2009). When Hillary Clinton completed her stint as secretary of state, she reportedly accepted $675,000 in speaking fees from Goldman for just three engagements in 2013. Was it a payoff, was she really worth that much, or was it a means to influence future secretaries of state by huge payouts to former secretaries of state?
Pedestrians pass the New York Stock Exchange, in New York, on Jan. 27, 2021. (John Minchillo/AP Photo)
China is positioning other big banks in a manner that could incentivize pro-Beijing political pressure. This month, BlackRock received permission for a joint venture with China Construction Bank and Singapore’s Temasek to begin wealth management. BlackRock is the world’s biggest asset manager, with approximately $9 trillion in assets under management (AUM). France’s Amundi asset manager ($1.8 trillion AUM) was the first foreign company to win approval for a majority foreign-owned wealth management business. It partnered with the Bank of China last year to launch the venture. Also in 2020, JPMorgan Asset Management unveiled plans for majority ownership in its mutual fund through buying out its JV partner.
While western governments have long pressed for “liberalization” of China’s financial services sector, it is arguably impossible to truly liberalize a country in which a communist government has total control of the economy and there is no genuine rule of law. International investing in dictatorships almost always includes an ongoing political transaction, rather than simple investment in actual assets that can be easily sold, and the profits repatriated.
Investment and dependence of the world’s biggest banks on China will give the totalitarian country increased political influence in the banks’ home countries. China’s near-total control of its own economy means that it can turn up and down the profits of these companies at will. If they show friendship or even loyalty to the CCP, they should expect subtle advantages that could lead to much higher profits. If they displease the CCP, they should expect disadvantages that could become as extreme as having their employees arrested by the regime.
As long as our banks are operating in China, they should be firewalled more thoroughly from our democratic political systems. Not doing so leaves an avenue for Beijing’s increasing economic influence, which in democracies, translates into political clout. This includes pre- and post-government positions and revenues from banks like Goldman Sachs. Democracy is by design porous to political influence from the business community. The more the business community becomes dependent on China for its profits, the more democracy will need protection against business-mediated CCP influence.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Central and Eastern Europe Help Show the Path Forward
Commentary
I’m writing from Warsaw, Poland, making for both my first time venturing behind the old Iron Curtain and my first trip back to Europe since the onset of COVID-19. Despite the overcast weather endemic to this part of the globe, the mood on the ground is unmistakably buoyant. Poland, along with its fellow Visegrad Group member Central European nations of Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic—and perhaps also including nearby Austria—has emerged as a perhaps-unlikely ground zero in the fight to save Western civilization from a debilitating and increasingly all-encompassing liberal decadence.
The sad history of the region continues to pervade daily life here. Locals routinely respond to questions about what sites tourists should visit in one of two ways: “The Nazis destroyed everything in the war” or, “The Soviet occupation ruined everything.” Few regions in the world know totalitarian repression and occupation like this area of the blood-soaked European continent does. The Visegrad states, which have rarely tasted national independence over the vicissitudes of the past millennium, felt the full brunt of both Nazi fascism and Soviet communism in all-too-recent memory.
The silver lining, and the reason this region is so interesting from a contemporary economic and geopolitical perspective, is that out of the joint tyrannical fires of Nazism and communism were forged, in the decades following the fall of the Berlin Wall, a robust appreciation for the integrity of the independent nation-state and the importance of Judeo-Christian-inspired societal goals, such as family formation and fortified communitarian ties. Put more simply, the four Visegrad states and Austria have emerged as veritable redoubts of traditional Western values and substantive political priorities, such as national borders, immigration properly limited to promote assimilation and intergenerational cultural stability, and the transcendental meaning and fulfillment that only religion can provide.
In Austria, the precocious Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is a reliable conservative who, at age 34, is the youngest head of government in the world. In Poland, the ruling Law and Justice Party is a right-wing national conservative bulwark that cozied up to the Trump administration and is now properly skeptical of both Vladimir Putin-led Russian predations and Angela Merkel-led staunch European integration. In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban is often lambasted as an “authoritarian” by the predictable Western media critics, but in reality, he has overseen a successful national revival characterized by the continent’s—and arguably the world’s—preeminent family-centric public policy agenda.
These leaders are unabashed about the superiority of their unique cultural and national heritages over the Brussels-based European Union siren song, publicly defensive of the Judeo-Christian code and its manifest goodness, and unapologetically sided with the United States over Russia and Israel over Hamas terrorists. As the post-Trump American right continues to cohere and slowly finds itself, it should look to modern Central and Eastern Europe for some concrete pointers.
For instance, whereas these states properly guard their distinct nationalities despite a past marked by frequent conflict, shifting borders and occupation by nefarious empires such as the Third Reich and the Soviet Union, America is concurrently in the throes of an enervating identity crisis of “1619 Project”- and “critical race theory”-inspired racial fractiousness and national self-doubt, despite a history where, some deeply lamentable pitfalls notwithstanding, there is still far more to take pride in than to lament. Americans can and should look eastward—past Paris and Berlin—for inspiration on how both substantive policy and even sheer rhetoric can help foster a culture of national pride and civic cohesion. If Poland and Hungary can take pride in their distinct national identities and ways of life despite everything this part of the world has suffered through, then surely Americans can do the same.
Many conservatives in America are currently lost in the wilderness and trying to find themselves. All around us, the shortcomings of post-Cold War neoliberal globalism are increasingly clear. The time is now to theorize and put into action a more sober, restrained, traditionalist strand of national conservative thought. That strand of thought elevates family, culture, community, nation, home and hearth over universalism and the liberal imperium. In so conceiving of and promulgating such a conservatism, Americans could do a lot worse than look to the ascendant nations and economies of Central and Eastern Europe.
Josh Hammer, a constitutional attorney by training, is an opinion editor for Newsweek, a podcast contributor with BlazeTV, of counsel at First Liberty Institute, and a syndicated columnist.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Teachers Should Educate Students About Vaccines Without Pressuring Them
Commentary
Controversial topics often come up for discussion in the classroom. This can be good for learning, but only if teachers handle the discussion properly. There’s a fine line between a vigorous debate that leads to deeper understanding for students and a career-ending fight between teachers and parents.
Fortunately, skilled teachers know how to walk that line. Now, as provinces ramp up their COVID-19 vaccination campaigns, that skill is obviously more important than ever. Teachers need to provide accurate information about vaccines to their students while also respecting the right of students and their parents to make their own medical decisions.
Let’s start with some basic facts.
Regarding COVID-19 vaccines, the evidence is clear that the vaccines are both safe and effective. In fact, countries with high vaccination rates are seeing significant drops in hospitalization rates for COVID-19, and they’re beginning to loosen their restrictions. Two of the best-known success stories are Israel and the United Kingdom.
Israel rapidly vaccinated most of its population with the Pfizer vaccine while the United Kingdom relied primarily on the AstraZeneca vaccine. The dramatic drop in hospitalizations and deaths in both of these countries correlated with the distribution and administration of vaccines. While the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines work differently, the evidence shows that both are highly effective.
This doesn’t mean that there are zero risks in administering vaccines. Like most medical treatments, these vaccines come with possible side effects. The AstraZeneca vaccine is linked to rare (about 1 in 100,000) blood clots while a handful of adolescents and young adults have experienced myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) shortly after receiving the Pfizer vaccine.
However, it’s important to keep these adverse reactions in perspective. A handful of severe side effects from vaccines pales in comparison with the negative impact of COVID-19 on the lives of people. There’s no question that, for the vast majority of people, it’s far better to receive a vaccination than to contract COVID-19. In short, it makes sense to get vaccinated.
These are the facts that teachers need to share with their students. Given the significant amount of misinformation circulating about vaccines on social media, teachers need to help students distinguish between reliable and unreliable information. Students need to learn that some sources are better than others.
For example, it makes more sense to consult Health Canada and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for accurate vaccine information than to rely on internet memes, opinion articles from anti-vaccine websites, or anecdotes shared by random people on social media. Similarly, peer-reviewed articles in medical journals are much better sources than advocacy videos created by “experts” with dubious medical credentials.
At the same time, teachers shouldn’t let their own enthusiasm for vaccines turn into undue advocacy. Parents, not teachers, are the primary caregivers for their children and parental rights must be respected. It’s not the role of teachers to undermine the relationship between parents and their children. Parents entrust schools with their children during the school day and teachers must never abuse this trust or exploit it for their own ideological purposes.
This doesn’t mean that teachers should shy away from discussing this topic in their classrooms. Far from it. Rather, teachers must find the proper balance between providing accurate and reliable information about vaccines and allowing students, with the help of their parents, to come to their own decisions. While teachers shouldn’t ignore blatant misinformation, they mustn’t disrespect students or their parents. Certainly, teachers shouldn’t make students feel stupid.
One of the most important things teachers can do is to encourage students to talk about these issues with their parents. Whatever is discussed in classes should also be freely shared at home with parents. Openness and transparency between the school and the home goes a long way to building trust between teachers, students, and parents.
In addition, teachers need to refrain from embarrassing students who hold different opinions about the effects of vaccines. There’s a power imbalance between teachers and students, and teachers must be careful not to exploit it.
During this global pandemic, teachers should educate students about vaccines without unduly pressuring them to get vaccinated. This is a tricky balance, but teachers are up to the job. It’s important they get it right.
Michael Zwaagstra is a public high school teacher, a senior fellow with the Frontier Centre for Public Policy, and author of A Sage on the Stage: Common Sense Reflections on Teaching and Learning.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A Hearty Summer Reading Recommendation: ‘Armstrong Rides Again!’
Commentary
It’s been a rough year, to say the least, with a global pandemic, the election of the most dangerous, leftist presidential administration ever, and a media and institutional elite in this country who are essentially Marxist functionaries.
Summer and beach reading might provide some needed relief. But before you pack your bags and head to the sun and the sand, here’s a recommendation for a fun book to take along.
It’s a western like no other (expect maybe its prequel, “Armstrong,” which I read and much enjoyed a couple of years ago). Written by H.W. Crocker III, it’s called “Armstrong Rides Again!” and it imagines the continuing adventures of George Armstrong Custer after he survived the Battle of the Little Bighorn and became an incognito marshal and soldier of fortune.
In this tale, he meets up with a few real-life characters such as Black Bart and Ambrose Bierce and gets involved in an entirely make-believe Latin American civil war. The book is action-packed—a real page turner—and hilarious at the same time.
Not only does this book provide recreational distraction from deeply troubling headlines and the cares of the day but it has, beneath the surface, a surprisingly deep and affirming conservative message—one that doesn’t interfere with its entertainment value. If anything, it adds to it, because you know the author is on your side. (I know this for certain because, full disclosure, Harry Crocker is a friend of mine.)
“Armstrong” was great, but “Armstrong Rides Again!” is one of those cases where the sequel is even better. In “Armstrong,” the conservative themes were subtler; here, they are more direct, but in an amusing way, as in the comical monologues of the ruler of the imaginary Latin American country.
There’s a lot in this book about the nature of a just government, loyalty, religion, the fetishization of “science” (what could be more timely?), the hypocrisy and self-serving nature of the liberal establishment, the essential importance of history and patriotism—all as retold by our incomparably courageous narrator, George Armstrong Custer, who battles American Indians, revolutionaries, and spies with equal aplomb while matching wits with his own on-again, off-again ally: the sardonic, skeptical martial Ambrose Bierce.
You’ll also meet a priest who designs submarines; a former Confederate officer-turned-federal agent; a multilingual, theologically minded American Indian scout; a suave, villainous turncoat whom the modern reader might liken to certain modern-day “principled conservatives”; and, of course, the Latin American ruler El Caudillo. Picture Donald Trump as the head of a Latin American monarchy and you might get some idea of what the character is like; he’s the man whose counterrevolutionary cause Custer joins.
The book, written as a letter to Custer’s wife, Libbie, is endlessly quotable, but perhaps these opening paragraphs will be enough to entice you: “I write this from a study with a window overlooking the ships in San Francisco Bay. Beside me, smoking a cigar and criticizing my every word, is Major Ambrose Bierce, the journalist. He would rather tell this tale himself—he is the professional writer after all—but as you know, dearest Libbie, I can turn a handsome phrase myself, and this is our tale, Bierce’s and mine, and would not have happened had we not crossed paths (and swords), and I can tell it plainly, unadorned by journalistic exaggeration.
“My last letter chronicled how I liberated Bloody Gulch, Montana—and a fine, rousing story it was. But it left you hanging precipitously wondering what happened next. Now I can tell you.
“I had to flee. The U.S. Cavalry was on its way—and much as I love the Cavalry, I had to preserve my anonymity. A sorrowing world believes I am dead, and I cannot disabuse it of that mournful conclusion until I can prove that my men and I were betrayed into catastrophe at the Little Bighorn.”
Who could stop reading after that! Do yourself a favor. Buy this book; let it entertain you while reminding you of the things that matter most in life; and pass it along to your older kids. They’ll get a kick out of it, too. As Andrew Breitbart famously said, “Politics is downstream from culture.” Isn’t it nice to have some popular culture of our own for a change? Thank you, Harry. Long may Armstrong ride!
David Limbaugh has practiced law for almost 40 years and is a political commentator who has appeared on hundreds of television and radio shows. He is a nationally syndicated columnist and author. His latest book is “Guilty by Reason of Insanity: Why the Democrats Must Not Win.” His website is DavidLimbaugh.com.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Is Europe Changing Its Strategy Toward China?
Commentary
The answer might be yes—and no. The European Parliament’s May 20 resolution freezing any consideration of a long-awaited Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) with China, along with advocacy of a strengthened European Union screening regulations on foreign investment and increased cooperation with the United States on a Transatlantic Dialogue on China, certainly seemed to symbolize a changed European attitude toward China.
Undoubtedly, European leaders have become more wary than those who met with members of a visiting U.S. congressional commission two decades ago. Warned by commissioners against lifting an embargo on arms sales that had been passed after the massacre in Tiananmen Square, they replied stoutly and virtually in unison that China “is not the same country that it was in 1989.” They dismissed evidence that, although China was incontestably not the same country that it had been in 1989, it was in fact more repressive than it had been, and was getting more so.
Both Eurocrats and politicians seemed intrigued by the notion of strategic partnerships that China held forth, denying that they had any military implications, even when shown that the ideograph for the first character in strategic “戰略,” shows a man holding a spear. Possibly their receptivity had something to do with Beijing’s hints at the prospect of lucrative deals for purchases of the wares of European defense contractors as well as the hordes of Chinese tourists eager to visit the continent’s castles, cathedrals, and department stores. Interestingly, the Western European states who had never lived under communism were the most trusting of Chinese promises whereas the Eastern European states, which had, were far more skeptical.
Fast forward 20 years and the picture changes dramatically. Not overnight, to be sure, but incrementally in rough proportion to increases in Chinese assertiveness. Enthusiasm for lifting the arms embargo waned after China’s National People’s Congress in 2005 passed an anti-secession law formally asserting Beijing’s determination to use non-peaceful means against the separation of Taiwan from China and in any scenario where unification [read: annexation] became otherwise impossible. So as well did China’s moves to enforce its claims to contested areas of the South China and East China seas as seen in its outright rejection of the 2016 ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) that China’s nine-dash line had no basis in international law, and its willingness to use force, as it did against Vietnam in 2020. Revelations about the treatment of Muslim minorities in Xinjiang, and the steady diminution of the rights of residents of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region that had been guaranteed under a 1984 treaty between Great Britain and China made it difficult to believe that Beijing cared about the rights of its peoples and international law. Or that post-1989 China was evolving toward the kind of liberal democratic state that European leaders had seemed so confident of.
An aerial photo taken though a glass window of a Philippine military plane shows the alleged on-going land reclamation by China on Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea, west of Palawan, Philippines, on May 11, 2015. (Ritchie B. Tongo/Pool/Reuters)
Reports on the suppression of religion and the persecution of believers were widely reported, but had few policy consequences. It was not so much that Europeans did not care about human rights issues as that they were eclipsed by concerns with the lure of a rapidly expanding Chinese market and their desire to get a larger share of it for themselves and their countries, often in competition with other European states.
There was no lack of awareness that China was negotiating with European countries one deal at a time, skillfully playing one against another, but also no consensus about what to do about it. French President Jacques Chirac declared 2004 the Year of China and bathed the Eiffel Tower in red for visiting counterpart Hu Jintao, with lucrative business deals signed during the latter’s four-day stay. And after German Chancellor Angela Merkel met with the Dalai Lama in 2007, she was criticized for jeopardizing German business opportunities in their rivalry with France.
Most European states welcomed Xi Jinping’s signature “One Belt, One Road” (OBOR, later renamed the “Belt and Road Initiative”) project that would facilitate Sino-European trade. Enthusiasm cooled markedly when it was discovered that too many of the railway cars that brought Chinese goods to Europe were being shipped back empty: a rueful quip was that OBOR should be renamed OBOW: One Belt, One Way. In addition, it was noticed that European companies had slipped in global rankings even as Chinese companies like State Grid and Sinopec climbed into Fortune’s top 10.
With its 28, now 27, members, the European Union, finds it difficult to reach an agreement on most issues, let alone ones as contentious as dealing with China. Until the 2021 decision on CAI, the results tended to be tepid. Maritime law expert Peter Dutton deemed the EU statement on the PCA’s decision on the nine-dash line, a “deeply disappointing statement from a government that likes to consider itself one of humanity’s strongest supporters of international law. They could have … and should have … said they support the tribunal’s decision. Period.”
China was also able to take advantage of economic downturns in the Euro economy to acquire strategically important assets at low prices. China’s State Grid Corporation began acquiring stakes in the power networks of cash-strapped southern European countries, including Portugal, Spain, Greece, and Italy, raising concerns that Beijing might exercise control of their operations. In response to a query by Reuters, a State Grid official replied, “This is not a financial investment, [it’s] more like a strategic investment.”
When chided by the EU for allowing Chinese shipping company COSCO to acquire rights in Piraeus, Greek officials responded angrily that the EU had done little to help their country in its hour of need and that they would welcome more investment from China. COSCO now has a 67 percent stake in Piraeus, one of the largest ports in the Mediterranean and strategically situated close to the Suez Canal. The Chinese-Greek partnership has had consequences for EU decision-making, as when Greece refused to sign an EU letter on the South China Sea and, later, on China’s alleged torture of detained human rights lawyers. Hungary, where China had pledged to spend billions of dollars on a railway project, likewise declined to sign. Concerns grew that China could be targeting smaller countries with weaker economies in order to penetrate the region. And, when in 2012 China set up the 16 (later 17)+1 partnership with central and eastern European states, EU leaders fretted that this was a mechanism to try to divide Europe.
A view of old warehouses in the Port of Piraeus in Athens, Greece, on Oct. 18, 2018. Chinese shipping giant Cosco said it has ambitious plans for the port, including a boost on the already-bustling container and car piers but also five-star hotel expansion. (Louisa Gouliamaki/AFP via Getty Images)
Chinese interests were not confined to penurious southern and eastern European states. German firms specializing in engineering and technology were prime targets for acquisition. In 2016, news that China’s Midea group planned to acquire cutting-edge robotics firm Kuka raised anxieties about loss of intellectual property. However, Chancellor Merkel declined to intervene, making Kuka essentially a Chinese company despite charges that German engineers were now designing robots for the People’s Liberation Army (Chinese military).
Vigilance, however, had been heightened. Shortly after the Kuka purchase, Germany’s economics ministry withdrew its earlier approval of chipmaker Aixtron by China’s Fujian Grand Chip Investment Fund LP, with Chinese officials accusing Germany of protectionism. Although German sources gave as their reason the lack of reciprocity in their dealings with China—which is true—the underlying issue was security. For example, Aixtron’s new, highly efficient semiconductor technology are able to boost the power of military radar transmitters while consuming less electricity. Not all concerns were economic: Berlin-based scholar journalist Didi Kirsten Tatlow’s meticulously documented study of China’s Einheitsfront (united front) operations, concluded that Beijing’s deliberate influencing in an orchestrated manner cannot be ignored, and that most Germans underestimate the CCP’s (Chinese Communist Party) will to power.
Similar revelations occurred in Britain bringing to an end what both sides called the “golden era” of bilateral relations, especially when, shortly after leaving office, former Prime Minister David Cameron accepted the headship of a fund to create new investment links between China and the UK. Security concerns were raised about Chinese participation in the UK’s Hinkley Point nuclear power station. News of the persecution of Uyghurs and the crackdown on pro-democracy Hong Kong residents deepened concerns, with Hong Kong being a particularly sensitive issue in Great Britain since it violated the 1984 treaty under which the UK agreed to return its colony to Chinese jurisdiction. These were exacerbated when the Chinese Foreign Ministry announced that the agreement “no longer has any practical significance and is not at all binding for the central government’s management over Hong Kong.”
Civil liberties not only in China but in the UK itself also began to be threatened with incidents such as Chinese students at the London School of Economics, likely acting on suggestions from their embassy, demanding that an LSE globe depicting Taiwan as separate from China be altered. The Chinese Embassy then threatened Oxford University’s Vice-chancellor Louise Richardson with the withdrawal of Chinese students unless she stopped Chancellor Chris Patten from visiting Hong Kong. Both efforts were unsuccessful: LSE’s globe remains unaltered and Richardson refused the embassy’s request. Patten subsequently said that “China had betrayed the people of Hong Kong and the West should cease kowtowing to Beijing for an illusory pot of gold.” And a February 2021 study of academic cooperation with Chinese entities found many UK universities “unintentionally generating research that is sponsored by China’s military conglomerates including those with activities in the production of weapons of mass destruction, intercontinental ballistic missiles, hypersonic missiles, and other items of massively destabilizing weaponry.”
Oxford University in Oxford, United Kingdom, on Sept. 20, 2016. (Carl Court/Getty Images)
Similarly high-handed statements from Chinese official sources occurred elsewhere. When meeting pushback, they tended to elicit insults. The ambassador to Sweden, reacting to its government’s complaints about the arrest of one of its nationals and, separately, evidence that an incident of Chinese tourists being bullied was fabricated, declared that his country had fine wines for its friends but shotguns for its enemies. Replying to widespread criticism of his words, the ambassador responded that Sweden was “not important enough to threaten.” After a French scholar defended the rights of parliamentarians to visit Taiwan, tweets from the Chinese embassy called him a “little hoodlum,” “ideological troll,” and “mad hyena.” When Lithuanian intelligence services accused China of increasingly aggressive espionage campaigns and the use of tech companies as surveillance assets, the Chinese ambassador countered that his country was being demonized and charged Lithuania with cold war-ism. Eighteen months later, Lithuania’s foreign minister announced his country’s withdrawal from the 17+ 1 organization and called on the other member states to do the same.
The EU’s tepid statement on Beijing’s rejection of the PCA ruling on the South China Sea did not diminish the concerns of nations with major shipping interests in the area. Britain and France announced plans to send naval vessels to emphasize the importance they attached to freedom of navigation in the area. France, which has geographically extensive territories in the South Pacific, was particularly articulate on this issue. After the ruling, then-defense minister Jean-Yves Le Drian called for joint EU patrols of the maritime areas of Asia and the establishment of a “regular and visible presence there” and, with China clearly in mind, Le Drian argued that if the rule of law and freedom of navigation were not respected in the South China Sea today, they will next be challenged in and around Europe. More surprising than the British and French FONOPs was Germany’s decision, although it has no territories in the area, to send a frigate to the area as part of a newly-adopted Indo-Pacific strategy.
What does this mean for the future of Sino-European relations? Unquestionably, attitudes in major EU countries have hardened. In Germany, the Green party’s candidate for chancellor, the Greens having a realistic chance to become the ruling party in the country’s September election, has vowed to be tough on China. The smaller Free Democratic Party, which has a reputation of being a kingmaker, has pointedly removed the “one-China” clause from its party platform. Britain has banned Chinese telecommunications provider Huawei from its 5G networks, offered UK passports to British National Overseas residents of Hong Kong, revoked state-owned broadcaster CGTN’s UK broadcast license, and expelled three Chinese for spying. In Czechia, attempts to build influence in politics backfired and there was discontent when a number of promised investments failed to materialize. The Czech senate president visited Taipei in defiance of Chinese orders and declared “I am Taiwanese;” Prague’s mayor publicly refused to accept a “one-China” clause and flies Tibetan flags from city hall.
Prague City Mayor Zdenek Hrib talks to media about China during his visit to Taiwan on March 29, 2019. (Zdeněk Hřib, Mayor of Prague/Facebook)
Yet it would be foolish to overinterpret these events. China is defiant, with the Global Times editorializing that the conditions imposed for resuming the ratification process are “rough and arrogant,” that the sanctions imposed by China are actually countermeasures against the EU’s sanctions over Chinese officials and entities, and that there is no way that China will lift those sanctions under pressure from the European parliament. EU organizations other than the EP and many more European countries, the paper pointed out, want the CAI to come into force.
Global Times may well be correct. The CAI was, and presumably continues to be, a major priority for Chancellor Merkel because of China’s importance to the German automobile industry: if ratified, it would allow European companies to own majority stakes in their Chinese subsidiaries rather than forcing them to operate though joint venture with Chinese partners and share trade secrets. China is Germany’s largest trading partner.
In less wealthy countries, the lure of Chinese largesse is a powerful force for leaders even where there is opposition from the general public. Czech president Milos Zeman, who has been described as “ostentatiously pro-China,” has vowed to make his country China’s gateway to Europe, even welcoming Xi Jinping with a 21-gun salute—an honor not accorded to any foreign leader for more than fifty years. Most recently, he praised China as “the only country that helped us and sent medical supplies” in the pandemic. In Serbia, although complaints about the environmental and political aspects of Chinese investment grew, its elected leaders, despite their aspiration to join the EU and claims to share its democratic values, lean further toward China, which offers big loans, vaccines, and investments without the constraints that the EU would impose. Mutatis mutandis, there is a similar situation in Montenegro, whose government has asked Brussels for financial assistance to refinance a loan to China for an expensive only partially built highway that, according to European analysts, was a risky proposition to start with. China holds a quarter of Montenegro’s debt; if it defaults, the terms of the contract give China the right to access the country’s land as collateral.
It is also possible that the EU sanctions themselves may end up hurting Western companies as much or more than China. Beijing has imposed boycotts on companies such as Sweden’s H&M, among others, for its “suicidal” remarks on so-called slave labor in Xinjiang, thereby impacting an important market for the apparel maker. A Xinjiang factory manager, admitting an initial downturn in international purchases of cotton, stated that his factory had made up the difference by shifting to domestic orders.
In sum, European strategy toward China has evolved beyond the so-called golden years, and present tensions are unlikely to abate in the foreseeable future. With the emotional naivete of the past now spent, European statespersons would do well to concentrate on the realistic economic and security aspects of the relationship. Given the democratic principles that undergird both Eurogovernance and those of Europe’s component states, Beijing will always have the upper hand in playing one off against another. How long this can continue depends on many factors outside the scope of this study. Meanwhile, however, the EU’s dream of a partnership between a united Europe and a liberalizing China seems to have fallen victim to Xi Jinping’s China Dream.
June Teufel Dreyer is a professor of political science at the University of Miami, a senior fellow of the Foreign Policy Research Institute, a faculty adviser to the Rumsfeld Foundation, and a former commissioner of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. Dr. Dreyer has authored several books on China’s ethnic minorities, China’s political system, China-Taiwan relations, and Sino-Japanese relations.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The Risks and Rewards for Democrats of Running on Trump Hatred
Commentary
“With Policies Failing, Democrats Turn to Trump-Hate,” wrote Conrad Black in these pages the other day. And as inflation, in particular, is only likely to get worse between now and next year’s mid-term elections, it will be more and more necessary for the Democrats to stick to Trump-bashing as the only possible distraction from their own failures.
Among the other failing policies mentioned by Lord Black are the chaos on the border, which Biden spokesfolks continue, ever more implausibly, to deny, as well as bad employment numbers, rising crime rates, continued fear-mongering over the coronavirus, insouciance over the ransomware attack on the Colonial pipeline by Russian hackers, and the politicization of school curricula with “woke” orthodoxies about race or “transgender” politics.
And then there’s also the ever more evident anti-Semitism among Democrats elicited by the Hamas-sponsored rocket attack on Israel.
That’s an awful lot of pretty obviously bad stuff for them to try to distract voters from with Trump hatred, especially as the former president won’t be on the ballot next year. Yet it’s certainly not beyond the realm of possibility that the continued demonization of Donald Trump can also continue to turn voters out to vote against his party, particularly if he himself is willing to cooperate in the effort.
For on the other side of that particular coin, so far as Republicans are concerned, is the problem of getting their voters plus a fair number of persuadables to concentrate on Democratic failures and forget about Trump—especially about his grievance against the Democrats over the stolen election—when the former President himself and his grievance alike seem determined not to be forgotten.
Though substantial numbers of Americans still believe that the election was stolen, and many of them feel passionately about it, a majority do not, which makes any decision to campaign on this issue in the mid-terms an almost certain loser for Republicans.
Of course, it’s just possible that Trump himself may know this and decide to campaign, unselfishly, with fellow Republicans against Democratic failures instead.
Blogger Mickey Kaus dismisses this possibility. “Even if GOP candidates don’t make Trump an issue in the midterms,” he writes, “and the Democratic candidates don’t make Trump an issue in the midterms, Trump will make Trump an issue in the midterms. Everything we know about the man says he’ll gravitate to wherever the media spotlight is and make it all about himself — it’s like a law of physics at this point, without the Uncertainty Principle.”
Kaus goes on to write that the problem for Republicans will be compounded if Trump or one or more of his business associates is indicted on a criminal charge, as it now seems possible if not likely with the convening of a grand jury by the Manhattan district attorney.
“If Trump is indicted in New York, or anywhere, that will only make his 2022 lunge for the limelight all the more inevitable, as he seeks to counter the bad publicity, make his case, and blast prosecutors for targeting an active political player for partisan reasons.”
That may be true, but I wonder if Donald Trump the unfairly harassed and persecuted former President isn’t more of an unknown political quantity than Donald Trump the putatively sore loser.
An indictment by a Democratic prosecutor in the run-up to the election, especially in the context of all the other failed attempts by Democrats to prove charges of wrong-doing against someone they obviously hate so much, risks creating sympathy for him among the persuadables and even more motivation to turn out among the true believers in Trumpism.
The situation would then be the reverse of that obtaining with any attempt to re-litigate the 2020 election. The Democrat true believers would then be on board but the persuadables might be more likely to lean toward the party of Trump if its figurehead is being pursued with obscure tax charges by an obviously politically motivated prosecutor.
At any rate, it is by no means certain that the hounding of President Trump nearly two years into his post-presidency will not backfire on the Democrats and make their use of him as a distraction from their own record in government even more obvious than it already must be.
At the very least it will rescue him from the irrelevancy that, by making him more subject to their ridicule than their hatred, could be as much their friend as it is the friend of those Republicans who privately wish he would just go away.
Conrad Black believes that, “at this point the administration looks like a melting iceberg, turning in the desperation of their failure at governing, back to the only tactic that has worked for them: the malicious character assassination of the former president. It is unlikely that will work again.”
I might put the chances of its working at closer to 50-50 myself, but if I were on the DNC, or in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, I think I just might conclude that the risks of bringing Trump front-and-center in the 2022 campaign outweigh the potential benefits—unless, of course, things get so bad that the Trump card is the only one left for them to play.
I’m not sure we haven’t arrived at that point already.
James Bowman is a resident scholar at the Ethics and Public Policy Center. The author of “Honor: A History,” Bowman is a movie critic for The American Spectator and the media critic for the New Criterion.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, on Capitol Hill in Washington on May 11, 2021. (Greg Nash/Pool/Getty Images)
Fauci and the Media Have Serious Blood on Their Hands Over COVID
Commentary
Donald Trump did many good things as president, but he didn’t always choose the best people to work with or for him. Take Omarosa and “The Mooch” for example.
If he wins a second term, he would be well-advised to bear in mind the old expression: “Flattery will get you nowhere.”
But I don’t blame Trump for the man who was by far the worst government functionary during his administration and right up there among the worst in American history: Dr. Anthony Fauci.
Treated by the media like some combination of Jesus, Moses, and Hippocrates, this overpaid lifetime bureaucrat was elevated to the level of soothsayer, with every word from his mouth treated as if it were “settled science,” even though that concept could be seen as an oxymoron by anyone with a 7th-grade education. He also contradicted himself so many times that it would take an abacus, appropriately, to keep count.
Meanwhile, the same media excoriated Donald Trump for even suggesting that the cheap and readily available hydroxychloroquine might be useful in curing the disease long ago dubbed here at The Epoch Times, with more corroboration daily, the “CCP virus.” (I can say congratulations to The Epoch Times—you were one of the few places to come to for real information—because I had nothing to do with this.)
Indeed, what has been called Trump Derangement Syndrome now seems to be too weak a term, considering the degree it dominated even medical science itself during a pandemic. We need something stronger. “Paranoid Trumpophrenia,” perhaps.
Fauci became the spokesperson for those Trumpophrenics, seemingly adjusting his opinions according to their needs. Anyone who disagreed with His Majesty, no matter his or her bona fides, was ridiculed in the press and social media.
Facebook, that anti-democratic institution that pervades our lives to a frightening extent, wouldn’t even publish routine questioning of the provenance of the disease until just now. It had to have come from a wet market, in the original view of Mark Zuckerberg, not a Chinese government laboratory. Fauci didn’t contradict him.
The media, along with Fauci’s help, was so successful in its propaganda that they cowed the two most important medical journals in the English language—The Journal of the American Academy of Medicine and the British Lancet—into claiming that the commonly used hydroxy was actually dangerous.
These esteemed journals eventually—and sheepishly—walked this back when actual evidence appeared and they were forced to agree that hydroxy, administered early, could be helpful in treating the virus. Shame on them.
The upshot of this prevarication that affected a large number of American and foreign medical institutions was that many died who could have been saved with early treatment. We’ll never know how many, but it’s likely a substantial number.
The media were, in essence, something they’ve always accused others of being—super spreaders.
So was Fauci.
Together, they have blood on their hands.
Of course, something was being hidden in all this—something that was readily apparent more than a year ago to anyone paying the slightest bit of attention—and is now coming to light only after a Wall Street Journal article has told us that three employees of the Wuhan virology lab had COVID-like symptoms in November 2019.
That something was the role played by Communist China in obfuscating the source of the pandemic. That role, it’s increasingly likely, involved so-called “gain of function” research, which enables deadly viruses to become more communicable to humans, at the Wuhan lab.
Fauci had some role in whatever occurred at the Wuhan lab, which should be fully investigated and exposed. Whether it will be is another question.
Despite a superficially unified Senate asking for the intelligence from our agencies, it’s not yet clear whether it will ever be revealed to the necessary extent.
Something quite nefarious militates against such investigative work that few admit in public. As uncomfortable as it is to say, a powerful and significant percentage of our governmental and business elites already assume—consciously or unconsciously—that communist China will win its competition with the West and have already positioned themselves to cash in.
In a sense, they want the communist oligarchs to win, since it’s more lucrative for both groups to be working together. Have you ever wondered why Zuckerberg was so reluctant to question the source of the pandemic on Facebook? This should tell you.
Globalism isn’t really globalism, but hidden China-ism.
This is a form of traitorousness unseen in history—certainly our history—and accounts for much of the behavior of those elites.
This is what Joe Biden was telling us spontaneously and candidly when he publicly stated China wasn’t our enemy, only months or weeks before the constraints of a political campaign forced him to take it back.
It’s what he truly believes. You don’t have to have access to Hunter’s laptop to know that (although the evidence would be stunningly obvious and copious).
Increasingly, we live in a world that pits the people against large portions of the political class and the corporate media.
Fauci was just a leading factor.
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Chinese dredging vessels are purportedly seen in the waters around Fiery Cross Reef in the disputed Spratly Islands in the South China Sea, in this still image from video taken by a P-8A Poseidon surveillance aircraft provided by the United States Navy, on May 21, 2015. (U.S. Navy/Handout via Reuters/File Photo)
China’s Sand Dredgers Are Eating Into Taiwan, Vietnam, Philippines; US Coast Guard Should Step Up
Commentary
China’s sand dredgers have destroyed thousands of square miles of ocean floor in order to build sand islands on which they put military runways and docking facilities for submarines and aircraft carriers. The construction of a single such Chinese island, Mischief Reef (2.16 square miles) on Philippine maritime territory, affected more than 460 square miles with plumes of sediment that smothered life on the ocean floor.
This implies that the approximately 5 square miles that China created in the exclusive economic zones (EEZ) of the Philippines and Vietnam since 2013 impacted approximately 1,075 square miles of ocean floor.
But what did all those dredgers do after they completed the islands? Some of them may now be eating away at the Philippines and Taiwan, if recent reports from the Financial Times (FT) and CNN are any indication.
Some of the about 220 Chinese vessels reported by the Philippine Coast Guard, and believed to be manned by Chinese maritime militia personnel, are pictured at Whitsun Reef, South China Sea, on March 7, 2021. (Philippine Coast Guard/National Task Force-West Philippine Sea/Handout via Reuters)
When the wind is still, a “deep rumbling” can be heard in the Matsu islands of Taiwan, according to a May 27 Financial Times article. The rumbling is from China’s dredgers, illegally taking sand from beneath the waves, and destroying marine habitat in the process. The Taiwan Coast Guard sometimes uses water cannons to expel them. In April alone, the Coast Guard expelled 59 illegal sand dredgers and transport vessels from around Matsu, just six miles from China’s Fujian Province. The dredgers cut Matsu’s undersea telecommunication cables, including internet, six times in 2020. The 736 residents on Xiju Island lost connectivity each time.
Were the incidents a prelude to an attack from the mainland or an “accident” caused by neglectful marine authorities in China? Taipei was alarmed and didn’t know, according to a Taiwanese official who spoke to the FT. Perhaps the incidents served as a test to see what Taiwan would do if the cables are someday cut on purpose.
One dredger, in a single day, can vacuum enough sand to fill three Olympic swimming pools and sell the haul for $55,000. But the dredging vacuums coral and living creatures, too. As a side effect of the dredging, huge plumes of underwater debris blanket and kill marine life over thousands of square miles. The living creatures down the food chain that feed fish are wiped out.
Taiwan’s fishermen suffer and beaches are receding, according to the FT. A local official said: “Matsu used to be a fishing paradise, with waters brimming with diverse species of fish and shellfish. The dredgers have devastated the marine ecology. Our fishermen now struggle to make a living from the sea.”
Beijing outlaws such environmental destruction near its own shores, pushing dredgers out to neighbors in what Su Tzu-yun at the Institute for National Defense and Security Research in Taiwan calls “grey-zone tactics” and “psychological warfare.” Taiwan’s Coast Guard doesn’t have the capacity to enforce its own laws against Chinese ships. Of the hundreds of Chinese ships in Taiwan waters at the worst point of 2020, the Coast Guard only managed to confiscate two.
Enforcement against Chinese dredgers in Taiwan’s waters poses a dilemma. As explained by a Taiwan politician, “We’re allowing the destruction of our environment if we do nothing. Still, if we respond with military force to crack down on civilian dredgers, then it could give China a pretext to further escalate tensions in the Taiwan Strait.”
Taiwan needs the muscle of the U.S. Coast Guard, backed by the U.S. Navy, if it hopes to stop China’s marine incursions against its outlying islands.
Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen waves to assembled guests from the deck of the ‘Ming Chuan’ frigate during a ceremony to commission two Perry-class guided missile frigates from the United States into the Taiwan Navy, in the southern port of Kaohsiung on Nov. 8, 2018. (Chris Stowers/AFP/Getty Images)
Not content with Taiwan and the approximately 1,075 square miles of Philippine and Vietnamese EEZ that China already destroyed to build military bases, China is now allegedly using dredgers on Philippine rivers and coastline, and carting away black sand for use to make iron and steel. It’s unclear whether China’s dredgers have legal rights to do so.
According to Chamber of Mines Executive Director Ronald Recidoro: “Lumalabas na [It appears] the contractor is helping by dredging the river, pero bakit kina-cart out yung buhangin? [but why does the contractor cart out black sand?] When you dredge, you just put it aside.” He noted that currently, Manila has no oversight function on magnetite black sand mining.
China’s black sand mining, according to a lawmaker from the Ilocos region, is “massive” on the Philippine coast of the South China Sea. China’s miners are using “heavy” equipment to extract the mineral, and “barges” to ship it out of the country. The lawmaker claims that the Luzon shoreline is receding as a result.
The Philippine lawmakers want to respond with a ban on the export of raw black sand in order to support pre-processing in the Philippines that would create local jobs.
President Rodrigo Duterte’s Department of Trade and Industry pointed out that such limitations could violate World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. This indicates a need for WTO rule exceptions for strategic industries such as steel, local job creation, and against aggressive countries such as China. The apparent Duterte administration acquiescence to China’s locally destructive mining indicates that his administration is far too accommodating of China given its threat of war against the Philippines. Such appeasement might be explained by China’s alleged corruption of the president through business deals involving his close associates.
Protesters rally against China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea in front of the Chinese Consulate in Makati, Philippines, on July 12, 2016. The Philippines brought the case to the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague to challenge China’s actions and claims in the South China Sea, which was ruled decisively in favor of the Philippines in July 2016. (Dondi Tawatao/Getty Images)
The Philippine people must vote Duterte out of office if they want to retake control of their sovereignty from Beijing. And, the Philippine Coast Guard, backed by the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Navy if necessary, should expel China’s illegal occupation and dredging of Philippine maritime territory. The same goes for China’s incursions against Vietnam and Taiwan’s fishing industry and beaches.
Confronting Beijing is admittedly risky, but no less is required to stop the regime from continuing its expansion. Bullying doesn’t stop until someone stands up against the bully.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The Supreme Court of the United States in Washington on May 7, 2019. (Samira Bouaou/The Epoch Times)
Defending the Constitution: The Founders’ Words Were Not ‘Meaningless’ or ‘Vague’
Commentary
This is the ninth in a series of articles defending the U.S. Constitution against accusations from political “progressives.”
A common accusation, especially from liberal academics and judges, is that many constitutional phrases are vague or meaningless. Or, as stated by former Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, they’re “luminous and obscure.”
Advocates of an all-powerful central government draw two conclusions from their belief that constitutional clauses are vague. The first is that the document doesn’t deserve great respect because it isn’t well drafted. The second is that vagueness justifies a very wide scope for the exercise of federal and judicial power.
But the charge of “vagueness” is based on ignorance. The usual reason critics think constitutional phrases are vague or meaningless is that they don’t know that those phrases had specialized meanings in 18th-century law. The Constitution is a legal document, and most of the framers and leading ratifiers were top-flight lawyers. In the founding era, even the general public was unusually knowledgeable about law. Hence, many of the Constitution’s ordinary-sounding expressions are packed with legal content.
Here are some illustrations: “regulate … Commerce,” “establish Post Offices,” “post Roads,” “natural born Citizen,” “Corruption of Blood,” “Privileges and Immunities,” and “necessary and proper.”
Several years ago, I wrote a book explaining these and other terms. Behind that book were many individual investigations into the true meaning of constitutional words and phrases. Following is the story of one investigation.
Critics leveling the “vagueness” charge long pointed to the necessary and proper clause as an example. Confused law professors and students scratched their heads over the clause and the most important Supreme Court case on the subject: Chief Justice John Marshall’s famous opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland (1819). Some tagged it “the elastic clause” and claimed it could justify almost anything.
The necessary and proper clause (Article I, Section 8, Clause 18) ends a long list of powers the Constitution grants to Congress. It reads as follows:
“The Congress shall have Power … To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof.”
Critics asked: “What makes a law ‘necessary’ to carry out another power? What does ‘proper’ mean? Moreover, the Constitution grants authority only to agencies and officials; ‘Powers vested … in the Government of the United States’ must be a typo!”
No one seems to have consulted 18th-century legal materials about these questions—until I did so, beginning in 2003.
I labored under some disadvantages. I had no internet access to materials I needed. The law school where I was a faculty member had only a small library and was 200 miles from any other law school. The administration was uninterested—even hostile—in my research.
But I had one huge advantage that the overwhelming majority of other constitutional scholars didn’t have: I had practiced law for many years. And although my law practice was in the 20th century rather than in the 18th, I had worked with many of the same kinds of legal documents the Founders used.
As I examined the necessary and proper clause, a little voice told me: “You’ve seen this kind of wording before! It looks like a phrase in a trust instrument or an agency agreement.”
During my law practice, I’d frequently consulted form books. These are huge collections of sample documents lawyers traditionally used to draft legal instruments.
“I bet there were form books in the 18th century. And if there were, I probably can find language in them that looks a lot like ‘necessary and proper,’” I thought to myself.
Shortly thereafter, I visited Philadelphia. The law librarian at the University of Pennsylvania—Ben Franklin’s favorite school—gave me access to their rare book collection. It turned out that there were plenty of 18th-century form books. While thumbing through one of them, I found a form for a “letter of attorney”—a kind of agency agreement we now call a “power of attorney.”
This is what I saw:
Extract from an 18th-century form book. (Rob Natelson)
Further checking confirmed that letters of attorney and other documents listing powers often finished up the list with an additional grant of “necessary and proper” powers.
I soon found that phrases like “necessary and proper” were also exceptionally common in English and American statutes, trusts, leases, commissions, and charters. Study of 18th-century English court cases taught me that, in this context, the word “necessary” meant “incidental.” I also learned that “necessary and proper” was a translation of an earlier Latin phrase, necessaria et opportuna. My knowledge of Latin—another skill rare among modern academics—confirmed that “necessary” meant “incidental.”
Still more investigation showed that “proper” meant that the person exercising authority was governed by legal duties of trust. Investigation also demonstrated that the Constitution really did grant powers to “the Government of the United States.” Those powers were implicit in clauses imposing obligations on the government, such as the Constitution’s mandate that the federal government protect the states from invasion.
The most significant finding was that “necessary” meant “incidental.” Here’s why.
When a document grants a list of explicit powers, it quietly grants unmentioned powers as well. The unmentioned powers permit the agent to carry out his duties by some methods not listed explicitly in the document. For example, depending on local custom, a document authorizing a person to manage a store might include an unmentioned power to advertise. Unmentioned powers are called “incidental.”
Eighteenth-century law imposed tight constraints on incidental powers. They could be exercised only to carry out listed powers. They had to be of lesser importance—“less worthy”—than listed powers. They had to be methods customary or reasonably required in the circumstances. Someone given authority to manage a business couldn’t claim that he had “incidental power” to use his boss’s money to take over an entirely unrelated business.
Let’s consider a related example from the Constitution. It grants Congress explicit power to “regulate Commerce … among the several States.” Those adopting the Constitution understood “commerce” to be mercantile trade and some associated activities, such as navigation and marine insurance. A federal law requiring standardized labels on goods shipped across state lines would be incidental to the commerce power and therefore authorized by the necessary and proper clause.
By contrast, manufacturing and agriculture are major economic categories distinct from commerce, even though—as the Founders knew—these categories impact each other greatly. Manufacturing and agriculture aren’t mere incidents of commerce, and a law governing them is not incidental to “regulat[ing] … Commerce.”
Thus, my research taught me that 20th-century Supreme Court decisions were wrong when they ruled that the necessary and proper clause gave Congress sweeping power over manufacturing and agriculture.
Once you know the background of the necessary and proper clause, you see that it helps make the Constitution flexible—but as not as flaccid as advocates of unlimited federal control would like it to be. The background also helps you grasp the true meaning of Justice Marshall’s opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland. I’m happy to report that, possibly based in part on my research, Chief Justice John Roberts recaptured some of this meaning in a case decided in 2012.
It’s not the Constitution that’s vague or meaningless. On this subject, vagaries exist principally in the minds of the critics.
Robert G. Natelson was a law professor for 25 years at three different universities and is senior fellow in constitutional jurisprudence at the Independence Institute in Denver. He is the author of “The Original Constitution: What It Actually Said and Meant” (3rd ed, 2014) and co-author of “The Origins of the Necessary and Proper Clause” (2010).
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.People walk past a giant inflatable representation of Prime Minister Boris Johnson outside the Mill House Leisure Center where the count process for the Parliamentary by-election is taking place in Hartlepool, England, on May 7, 2021. (Ian Forsyth/Getty Images)
Woke Democrat Fragility: A Warning From Britain
Commentary
After every election, pundits see the result as evidence of the terminal decline of the losing party. This is certainly the case in Britain, where the Labour Party suffered a catastrophic defeat in the recent local elections and the by-election in Hartlepool, a solidly Labour seat that the Tories won.
There have been many columns arguing that Labour has lost its core constituency and has little hope of commanding a parliamentary majority ever in the future. In the United States, such predictions routinely accompany Republican defeats in the polls, and this year is no exception.
What makes this year different is that we see diagnoses of a bleak future facing the Democrats, the winners who now control the presidency and both houses of Congress. Their supporters also dominate the commanding heights of the culture and economy, of the media, entertainment, education at all levels, Big Tech, Big Sport, Big Business, and Wall Street.
Is the triumph of American progressives built on sand? Is the Democrat glee at divisions in the GOP premature? Is the fate of the Labour Party in the UK a warning for the Democrats? The two parties are often compared in terms of their direction and demographics. Both have undergone profound shifts in ideology and base of support in recent years.
Is the Labour Party Dying?
Parties fade and die, sometimes unexpectedly and comprehensively. The Federalist Party in the United States faded quickly in the 19th century; Britain’s Liberal Party went into a sudden and comprehensive decline a century later. One of the reasons George Dangerfield cited for this collapse in his 1935 classic “The Strange Death of Liberal England” was the rise of the labor movement and a major political party based on it.
In the 20th century, the Labour Party gained the overwhelming support of industrial workers and their unions. Important working-class leaders rose through the ranks. But in recent years, the party has gone through some demographic shifts. The leadership is all university-educated, the industrial union members are outnumbered by public sector unions, and government employees are a large part of the party and its financing.
In the biggest vote in British history, that of the Brexit referendum of 2016, and the rift between the governing elites—the media, big business, the financial sector, education, and entertainment—and the majority of the working class, the Labour Party sided with the elites and their characterization of those who voted for sovereignty and independence as uneducated and xenophobic.
In the recent by-election in the northern city of Hartlepool, a traditional Labour stronghold that had voted overwhelmingly for Brexit in 2016, Labour ran as its candidate for Member of Parliament (MP) a Remainer, a supporter of the UK’s remaining in the European Union. He lost.
In response to Labour’s demographic and political shifts, culminating in the party’s massive defeat in the Hartlepool by-election and in local elections, Khalid Mahmood, a leader of the party and Parliament’s first Muslim MP, resigned from his ministerial position. He had this to say about what had gone wrong with his party:
“My view is simple: in the past decade, Labour has lost touch with ordinary British people. A London-based bourgeoisie, with the support of brigades of woke social media warriors, has effectively captured the party. They mean well, of course, but their politics—obsessed with identity, division and even tech utopianism—have more in common with those of Californian high society than the kind of people who voted in Hartlepool yesterday. The loudest voices in the Labour movement over the past year in particular have focused more on pulling down Churchill’s statue than they have on helping people pull themselves up in the world. No wonder it is doing better among rich urban liberals and young university graduates than it is amongst the most important part of its traditional electoral coalition, the working-class.”
Does this sound familiar?
A Warning for the Democrats
In his recent article in the New Statesman, Britain’s most successful left-of-center politician, Tony Blair (prime minister 1997–2007), argued that the steep decline of the Labour Party is typical of what’s happening to center and center-left parties all over Europe, including the French Socialist Party, the German SPD, and of the Spanish and Swedish left.
The Democrats are in a much stronger position. Or so it seems. They won control over both houses of Congress and the presidency. But, Blair argues, “the Biden victory was a heavy reaction not so much against the policies as the comportment of Trump. And in Biden, the Democrats nominated possibly the only potential leader who could have won.” Unlike Barack Obama in 2008, Joe Biden had no coattails and the party did poorly in state-level votes. The Democrats’ success in the 2020 election, however modest and whatever its causes, was the exception to the precipitous decline of such parties in the West.
We see in the United States a similar rift as in the UK and Europe between the main center-left or progressive party and its working-class supporters. Of the party’s program of Big State, tax, and spend, only the spending part is popular, and it’s what the Republicans also did under Trump. Its approach of expanding state regulation and control is unattractive. It’s an old-fashioned non-response to the fundamental economic transformation of our time, in internet technology, quantum computing, AI, financial payments, and defense.
This old-fashioned leftism, Blair argues, “is combined with a new-fashioned social/cultural message around extreme identity and anti-police politics which, for large swathes of people, is voter-repellent. ‘Defund the police’ may be the left’s most damaging political slogan since ‘the dictatorship of the proletariat.’ It leaves the right with an economic message which seems more practical, and a powerful cultural message around defending flag, family, and fireside traditional values. To top it off, the right evinces a pride in their nation, while parts of the left seem embarrassed by the very notion.”
The unions on which these parties rely for financing and political activity are in long-term decline. In the United States, public-sector union membership rates are more than five times higher than those in the private sector, where only 6.3 percent of workers were union members in 2020.
Race and Class
The Democrats have felt safe in neglecting areas of industrial decline ravaged by opioid addiction, high unemployment, and collapse of civil society in all its forms—voluntary associations, church, schools, and family. Such areas are predominantly white and working-class, seen as a declining demographic group. The numbers of racial and ethnic minorities rise through legal and illegal immigration while whites suffer declining fertility.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump tapped into the anger and despair of the white working class. Republicans and conservatives such as J.D. Vance and Tucker Carlson brought widespread attention to their plight. Trump, for all the nonstop attacks on him from the liberal propaganda machine that the legacy media inflicted, did better than had more tactful and moderate Republicans such as John McCain and Mitt Romney. In Democratic primaries, blacks preferred the reclusive Biden in the primaries to either Kamala Harris or Cory Booker.
The scorn and neglect on the part of urban progressive elites was reinforced by the intensely divisive woke ideology that saw race rather than class everywhere, denounced the country and its whole history as endemically racist, and regarded all criticism of its ever more anti-American, anti-family, anti-Christian ideology as the work of white supremacists.
The left has long had a patriotism problem that divides its intellectual vanguard from its working-class base. Writers and scholars, from George Orwell’s classic 1941 pamphlet to those who denounce critical race theory (CRT)—as a neo-racist, segregationist ideology that ascribes agency to whites and more or less a complete lack of it to blacks—have condemned the blindness of progressives to the oppressed people they champion in principle.
“Antiracism” of the CRT kind is an ideology of affluent woke white liberals. It appeals, argues scholar Shelby Steele, to the guilt or vulnerability of educated whites, focusing as it does on their feelings (including self-loathing and fear of being thought racist). It does nothing for blacks, beyond enriching leaders who receive large sums from corporations and the wealthy. Linguistics professor John McWhorter sees the current “antiracism” as a new religion, one that’s “actually harming his fellow Black Americans by infantilizing Black people, setting Black students up for failure, and passing policies that disproportionately damage Black communities.”
Are Democrats Desperate?
When Obama won the presidency and controlled both houses of Congress, he did so under the rules of the game. He didn’t seek to pack the Supreme Court or end the filibuster or add small Democratic strongholds to the list of states, each gaining two senators, or abolish the Electoral College, or talk about abolishing the Constitution and moving to a centralized one-person, one-vote system with no regard to regional representation—the approach that works so badly as in some Latin American countries.
If the Democrats and their supporters were confident that they could win without limiting free speech, canceling and deplatforming their adversaries, packing the Supreme Court, adding states, and eliminating the filibuster, they wouldn’t be eager to resort to such measures.
They know that many of their projects and policies—like defunding the police, criminalizing “misuse” of pronouns, or allowing irreversible experimental medical practices even for children, while banning other professional treatment approaches to treating gender dysphoria—are widely regarded as insane. They know parents strongly oppose, even if they dare not say so, the inclusion of transgender ideology in school curricula, requirements to admit biological males to women’s facilities and sporting competition, and the inculcation in their children of shame and guilt about their parents and their country.
On all these issues, there’s a wide gulf between the Democratic Party and affluent urban elites, and the mass of ordinary working people the party once relied on as a solid base of support.
The similarities between Britain’s Labour Party (as well as the European center-left parties) and the current American experience are striking. They make the Democrats’ current success look like an anomaly rather than the wave of the future.
Paul Adams writes on ethics, marriage and family, and social policy. He is professor emeritus of social work at the University of Hawaii. He has also taught at Case Western University and the University of Texas.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The CCP Monopoly Behind the Chinese Ultramarathon Tragedies
Commentary
Twenty-one people running a mountain ultramarathon in northwestern China died after extreme weather conditions hit the high-altitude race, the Chinese communist regime announced on May 23.
The 100-kilometer (62-mile) mountain race was being held on May 22 in the Yellow River Stone Forest tourist site of Baiyin city in Gansu Province, when it was hit by hail, freezing rain, and gale-force winds that caused as many as 21 deaths out of a total of 172 participants. Liang Jing, a well-known runner who had won a 62-mile race in Ningbo, and Huang Guanjun, the marathon champion for hearing-impaired runners at China’s 2019 National Paralympic Games, were among those who died.
Gansu and Yunnan Marathon Deaths
Just within the first week of this month, two other separate marathon deaths were reported. On May 5, a senior executive of a Shanghai-based corporation suffered a sudden cardiac arrest and passed away while running a desert marathon held in Guazhou of Gansu Province, according to Chinese social media Weibo. On May 6, a runner named Yang Lijie died in another mountain ultramarathon in Zhaotong city of Yunnan Province, Chinese news portal Sohu reported.
At least 15 marathons were held in China during this year’s May holidays, from May 1 to May 5, according to Chinese news portal NetEase. And within one week before that, there were more marathons in Beijing on April 24 with about 10,000 participants and Huai’an of Jiangsu Province on April 19.
In addition, “Run China,” a national annual marathon series co-organized by the Chinese Athletic Association (CAA) and CCTV state-run media, has enrolled a total number of 24 selected events spanning cities in China so far this year, according to the state-run media Xinhua.
In retrospect, marathons were originally a kind of niche event, but have become hugely popular in China since 2010, except for 2020 due to the epidemic. An official document released by the CAA called “2019 China Marathon Blue Book” shows that the number of participants in marathon races reached over 7 million in 2019, while the number of marathon-related races increased from 13 in 2010 to 1,828 in 2019, a stunning 140-fold surge, according to Chinese news portal Sina.
Marathon races have been blooming across China in recent years, spawning an entire domestic marathon industry worth tens of billions of dollars. Although most domestic marathons can rely on the sponsors’ fees to run the races, race operators can further generate revenue by collecting registration fees from ordinary runners. Depending on the length of a particular race, the fees varied from $12.00 to $37.00 in 2018. In 2019, registration fees alone may have generated hundreds of millions of dollars. The total annual domestic marathon industry output reached $11.4 billion in 2018 and continues to rise, according to a report by the CAA.
A marathon event is profitable for the event operator and brings big business to the hosting city to boost the local economy, including its restaurant, tourism, and retail sectors. Take the city of Xiamen, in southeast China’s Fujian Province, for example, statistics show that the Xiamen Marathon boosted city business revenues by more than $92 million in 2017, according to Sina.
So it is easy to understand why city governments across China are keen to hold marathon events.
A runner is taking part in the Guizhou Tour of Leigong Mountain 100km International Marathon in Danzhai in China’s southwestern Guizhou Province, on Nov. 17, 2019. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
CCP Monopoly
Unlike marathons held in other countries, those that take place in China are all under the control of Beijing and local authorities of the Chinese communist regime, which means that it is not easy for private businesses to get a slice of the big pie, which keeps on getting even bigger.
As far as the central authorities are concerned, the state-run CAA still controls most of the events as the official organizer. For example, as part of a joint venture with the CAA, China Olympic Road Race Sports Management has been not only responsible for hosting the annual Beijing Marathon but also has obtained the operation rights to local large-scale marathon events, such as the Huai’an Marathon held in April this year, which had a winning bid of $1.22 million.
However, local authorities can also become the organizers of the races, which are operated by companies or organizations that are either controlled by or have close ties with the local authorities.
For example, the recent Gansu ultramarathon was organized by the municipal government of Baiyin, Gansu Province, and hosted by Jingtai county. The event was operated by Gansu Shengjing, a company that undertakes many local government projects.
On May 23, at a press conference, Zhang Xuchen, Baiyin city Party Committee deputy secretary and Baiyin mayor, classified the incident as a public safety issue—caused by a sudden change in local weather.
Although the Chinese media generally believes the extreme weather could not have been avoided, it failed to hold the organizer accountable for not taking precautions to ensure the runners’ safety. With such a high number of casualties, the race could be passed off as a natural disaster caused by extreme weather, but in fact, it was a man-made disaster caused by the extreme negligence of the organizer.
More people were killed in the mountain ultramarathon than in the recent earthquake that hit the region. Critics accused Baiyin authorities of extreme negligence because they should have valued human lives by spending more money to strengthen safety measures, or they simply should have canceled the race based on weather forecasts. A close friend of Huang said, “He was deaf and dumb and couldn’t even call for help.”
Speaking of the marathon organizers and hosts that have disregarded the safety and health of the participants, Beijing officials have to be held accountable.
As a most recent example, on May 23, the Beijing Meteorological Bureau issued a warning for hazy and dusty weather in most areas, with a minimum visibility of only 2 to 3 miles. However, the Beijing Marathon still started on the same day, with tens of thousands of runners participating under hazardous conditions.
In 2014, at an international marathon in Beijing, the PM2.5 scale, which measures the number of micrograms of particulate matter per cubic meter, went up to a whopping 344, as compared to the 25 micrograms considered to be healthy by the World Health Organization. Tens of thousands of participants had to wear gas masks, braving the choking smog that again blanketed the capital. Chinese netizens criticized the organizer for insisting on holding the race without postponing it despite knowing the hazy forecast and completely ignoring the hazards to the runners’ health. Some frustrated runners called it a “smog-athon.”
The Chinese communist regime is the driving force behind the national marathon rush in China, and the so-called marathon economy is a monopolistic business—from the state-run CAA down to all local governments. However, as some domestic media have said, the profit and money-driven behavior that comes with it has deviated from the original purpose of the marathon, which was originally aimed at promoting health. The poor safety standards and sudden deaths are just the tip of the iceberg in the chaos of the nationwide marathon rush.
Chen Simin is a freelance writer who often analyzes China’s current affairs. She has contributed to The Epoch Times since 2011.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks to members of Congress during a hearing in Washington on March 18, 2021. (Susan Walsh/Pool/Getty Images)
Will the Madness of 2020 Last?
Commentary
The COVID-19 pandemic is ending with mass vaccinations. So is the national quarantine. The rioting, looting, and arson that began in the summer of 2020 is finally sputtering out.
The acrimony over the 2020 election is fading. Trump Derangement Syndrome became abstract when Donald Trump left office and was ostracized from social media.
In other words, the American people are slowly regaining their senses after the epidemic of mass hysteria that gripped the nation last year.
But many Americans wonder whether what Antifa, Black Lives Matter, and the hard left wrought last year will last when the nation is no longer gripped by 2020 madness.
Teachers and academics are notorious for furious opposition to administrative bloat. For the last 50 years, administrations have proliferated while the ratio of non-teachers to teachers has skyrocketed—much to the chagrin of teachers’ unions.
But in the last year, colleges have gone mad in hiring thousands of “diversity, equity, and inclusion” administrators. Their job descriptions may be vague, but they certainly won’t contribute to classroom education. Instead, they’ll monitor the speech and actions of those who do.
How long will mostly left-wing teachers’ unions continue to support such vast diversions of money to armies of new non-teaching administrators?
Before 2020, the left demanded “proportional representation” in hiring and admissions. And if minority groups and women weren’t represented in the workplace according to their percentages of the American population, then prejudice was automatically assumed, and reparatory measures were then taken to hire by race and gender.
“Affirmative action” was the euphemism for such quotas. It was more or less institutionalized because proportional representation wasn’t entirely illogical in a multiracial society, and there was still the common goal to follow Martin Luther King Jr.’s notion of integration and assimilation to make race incidental, not essential, to who Americans are.
Not now. The foundations of the new woke race agenda are mostly anti-white. African American Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot recently decided not to grant interviews to white reporters. The city of Oakland’s entitlement payouts, like those of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, are designed not to be distributed to white people.
A number of black intellectuals now openly envision American life segregated from whites. The Nation’s Elie Mystal envisions his life as “whiteness-free.” Damon Young, senior editor of The Root and occasional New York Times contributor, claims, “Whiteness is a public health crisis. It shortens life expectancies.” And Barnard College English instructor Ben Philippe recently wrote a novel envisioning the mass gassing and blowing up of white people.
Such hatred has never been condemned by Black Lives Matter or other civil rights groups. When the country returns to life after COVID-19, will such venom still be tolerated?
For that matter, will the media be able to get away with not covering attacks on Jews in major cities by mostly pro-Hamas or Arab American youth?
Before 2020, the American people had tired of media farces such as the demonization of the Duke lacrosse team, the lies about the Covington Catholic High School kids, and the Jussie Smollett hoax about an attack by white racists. Will Americans return to their earlier skepticism when it increasingly seems as if the media and the government mostly misled them when denying the possibility that COVID-19 leaked from a Wuhan lab engaged in the engineering of dangerous viruses?
Will people still believe that “armed insurrectionists” planned a Jan. 6 coup? As the hysteria fades, we are learning there were no arms anywhere. No one has been charged with treason, conspiracy, or insurrection. There are no conspiracy kingpins in custody.
By the end of the year, will the media-hungry Dr. Anthony Fauci still be a national icon, as the country finally adds up his contradictory communiqués that were constantly changing and often flat-out wrong?
From March 2020 to spring of 2021, the country went through a mass hysteria. Despite its ideological pretensions, the collective insanity was not unlike the Tulip mania in early 17th-century Holland or the June bug epidemic paranoia of 1962.
But as Americans sober up, will they institutionalize or reject the frenzy remaining from the destructive stampede that took the country over the cliff during the most unhinged year in American history?
Victor Davis Hanson is a conservative commentator, classicist, and military historian. He is a professor of classics emeritus at California State University, a senior fellow in classics and military history at Stanford University, a fellow of Hillsdale College, and a distinguished fellow of the Center for American Greatness. Hanson has written 16 books, including “The Western Way of War,” “Fields Without Dreams,” and “The Case for Trump.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas holds a press briefing in the Brady Briefing Room of the White House in Washington, on May 11, 2021. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP via Getty Images)
Ministry of Truth 2.0
Commentary
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas is reportedly considering the development of tools that would help America’s children discern truth from lies and know when they are being fed “disinformation.”
The Washington Times, which first reported the story, says a department spokesperson declined to give details, but that more information would be revealed “in the coming weeks.”
Mayorkas might want to start by fact-checking his recent claim that the U.S. southern border is “closed.” He made the statement when news pictures showed waves of people crossing the border. Should kids believe him, or their “lying eyes”?
Should anyone, regardless of political party or persuasion, be comfortable with government telling especially children what they can believe and whom they can trust? This is what totalitarian states do. It’s called propaganda.
We are already inundated with political correctness, cancel culture, and woke-ism. TV networks spend more time delivering opinion and slanting stories to particular points of view than what once resembled—if not objective journalism—then at least fairness.
The list of government officials who have lied is long and dates back to the founders of the nation. Some lies could be defended on national security grounds. Others were used to cover up wrongdoing or enhance the image of the one who lied.
In recent years, we recall President Clinton’s denial of having sex with Monica Lewinsky, President Obama’s claim about his health care program: “If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor,” President George H.W. Bush’s “Read my lips, no new taxes,” assertions by the George W. Bush administration that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, Richard Nixon’s lies about Watergate, the lies told by Lyndon Johnson, members of his administration and generals about how we were winning the war in Vietnam (Johnson had pledged during the 1964 campaign not to send Americans to fight in Vietnam, another lie), and the CEO of R.J. Reynolds telling a congressional committee in 1994 that “cigarette smoking is no more ‘addictive’ than coffee, tea, or Twinkies.” The Washington Post reported in January that by the end of his term, former President Trump “had accumulated 30,573 untruths during his presidency—averaging about 21 erroneous claims a day.”
I could go on, but you get the point.
George Orwell was prescient when he wrote in “1984” about Newspeak and the Ministry of Truth. We have already achieved the former in what we are allowed to say, or not say, lest we be smeared with nasty rhetorical stains. Let’s revisit the Ministry of Truth for those who haven’t read the book or need a reminder.
The Ministry of Truth was related to Newspeak in that it had nothing to do with truth, but propaganda by another name. Its job was to falsify historical records in ways that aligned with government policies and its version of those events. It was also tasked with defining truth, which sometimes resulted in “doublespeak,” or contradictions, that served the purposes of the state.
Truth has become subjective and relative in modern times and is now personal. You have your “truth” and I have my “truth.” Even when they contradict each other, it doesn’t matter as long as we both feel good about it.
This flawed notion has contributed to our cultural decline.
Try this experiment if you want to see how far we have moved from objective truth. Go to any popular definition website and type in “truth.” They assume truth exists and can be discovered.
The truth is supposed to set us free, but if we can’t recognize or define it, we will be in bondage. Secretary Mayorkas should reread Orwell’s novel and then abandon any plans to indoctrinate schoolchildren.
John Calvin Thomas has been a syndicated columnist, author, and radio commentator for more than 35 years. His latest book is “America’s Expiration Date: The Fall of Empires and Superpowers and the Future of the United States.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Americans Remain Patriotic
Commentary
Despite every effort of the “woke” left and its allies in the left-wing news media, most Americans remain proud of our country and value patriotism.
The greatest dangers facing the Democrats in 2022 and 2024 are their radical wing’s constant outbursts of public anti-Americanism and their woke efforts to coerce Americans into accepting ideas they don’t believe—and, in some cases, deeply repudiate.
Despite everything you see in the woke-radical left-dominated media, Americans remain remarkably traditional in how they see themselves and how they value patriotism.
McLaughlin & Associates did a survey for a Gingrich 360 project we are working on, and the results were far more definite than the left-wing media would lead you to expect.
Consider the following survey results.
The left constantly uses divisive language and tries to force Americans to assume tribal identities along racial or ethnic lines rather than favor a shared national identity. Regardless, 87 percent of Americans see themselves primarily as Americans, while only 8 percent see themselves primarily as persons of color. Blacks see themselves as Americans by a 66 percent to 28 percent margin. Hispanics are 76 percent to 17 percent pro-American identity. Specifically, among immigrant households, 85 percent consider themselves American and only 11 percent consider themselves persons of color.
So, the next time you hear some left-wing figure promoting racial or tribal identity over a united American identity, remember they are talking to one-tenth of the country and are rejected by 85 percent of the country.
While the left is attacking America, our history, and our institutions, more than three in four Americans (78 percent) agree that the United States is the greatest country on earth. Only 19 percent disagree. Interestingly, immigrant households are 79 percent to 18 percent in agreement that the United States being the greatest nation on earth.
While the left focuses on anti-American distortions of history and diatribes against the United States, three out of four Americans (75 percent) also agree that America is the freest and most democratic country on the planet. This is true for black Americans (64 percent), Hispanic Americans (72), and immigrant households (77 percent).
After all the ranting about systemic racism, critical race theory, and other efforts to get people to think in terms of tribal divisiveness, the American ideal remains unifying and oriented toward individuals rather than groups.
In fact, by 91 percent to 5 percent, Americans agree with the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. that the content of a person’s character is more important than the color of his or her skin.
This remarkably consistent support of the American people for a positive view of America is a warning to the left: If you persist in being the racist, negative, divisive party that is trying to use the government and societal elitism to force tribal identities upon the American people, you will be rejected by massive majorities.
Americans do not accept your warped and destructive repudiation of America.
From Gingrich360.com.
Newt Gingrich, a Republican, served as House speaker from 1995 to 1999 and ran as a presidential candidate in 2012.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Key Issues About China’s Demographics Overlooked
Commentary
After China announced the results of its seventh national census, various criticisms immediately followed, mostly focusing on the serious distortion of facts.
Falsification of statistical data is a systemic disease that has existed in China since the founding of the Chinese communist regime. Before the authorities implemented the one-child policy in 1980, which aroused worldwide criticism, China’s population data was falsified in an under-reported manner because the Chinese authorities believed overpopulation was a headache back then. Now the situation is reversed—population data is still falsified but this time it is inflated.
Falsification is certainly a big problem. Nonetheless, when discussing China’s demographic issues, some analysts have overlooked the real problems.
First of all, population flow from economically underdeveloped areas to urban areas is not unique to China. The real problem is an ill economic structure.
I took a closer look at an issue that has been widely criticized. That is, based on the population in each province, it is obvious that there are more residents in the south and fewer in the north, more in the east and fewer in the west. Some northern and western provinces have already experienced negative population growth, showing a noticeably unbalanced population structure.
South China’s economy is more developed than the north, and the east is more prosperous than the west. Population migration from economically underdeveloped areas to relatively developed areas is a natural trend under the market economy, and this is true all over the world. The northeast has been declining and the west was underdeveloped to begin with, especially the desert areas in the northwest that are not suitable as human habitats. Nowadays, young adults in these areas can relocate to south and east China and they have survived, which not only indicates that the mobility of Chinese society has increased, but also proves that the contemporary youth have better adaptability than their parents’ generation. That is to say, unbalanced population distribution per se is not necessarily a problem.
Scavengers pick up useful construction waste from a garbage dump in Hefei, central China’s Anhui Province, on Dec. 9, 2012. China’s wealth gap has widened to a level where it is among the world’s most unequal nations, a Chinese academic institute said in a survey, as huge numbers of poor are left behind by the economic boom. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
The same is true in the United States. In recent years, there have been outbound migrations from New York, San Francisco, Chicago, and other cities. The Democratic-controlled states advocate political correctness. For instance, a large number of illegal immigrants moved into these states, BLM protests occur frequently, and taxation is heavy. As a result, many companies have chosen to leave and the economies in these states have declined. Naturally, these companies took away a group of employees, causing a population loss for these states, and the loss is mostly affluent residents.
For China, the key problem, a really serious one, is that the economic structure of China’s underdeveloped areas is abnormal, and many areas are not even financially self-sufficient.
For example, Foping county of Shaanxi Province has recently been hyped by the Chinese media for having a very low permanent population, a little over 8,000 in the entire county, while there are 2,194 people working in the local government and public institutions.
The county’s local fiscal revenue was 39.43 million yuan in 2018 and 36.6 million yuan in 2019. The fiscal expenditures in these two years were 800 million yuan and 797 million yuan respectively. It is a parasitic area that has to feed on the central government. The situation in Foping is somewhat extreme, but in remote Chinese counties, the lack of employment opportunities for local youth is a common phenomenon.
Based on the above analysis, discussing the imbalanced population distribution in China is a seemingly serious topic but a false problem. Due to differences in economic development and geological factors, no country in the world has an evenly distributed population in different regions. Only totalitarian regimes like to control population movement and believe it is normal for the population to be evenly distributed across all regions.
‘Aging Demographics’ With Chinese Characteristics
According to the United Nations standard, a country or region with an elderly population of more than 7 percent can be considered as entering an aging society, 14 percent or more means “moderate aging.”
Currently, the proportion of elderly people aged 65 and over in China has reached 13.5 percent, according to official data. Public opinion has been focused on the discussion that the aging problem is imminent, as if the livelihood problem of China’s elderly population should only be attributed to the excessively large number of seniors.
A “one-child” policy billboard saying, “Have less children, have a better life,” greets residents on the main street of Shuangwang, southern China’s Guangxi region in May 2017. (Goh Chai Hin/AFP via Getty Images)
The United Nations has released a report titled “World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision,” which forecasts the elderly population of various countries in 2014, 2030, and 2050.
Mankind is now in the middle stage of the 2014 to 2030 period.
In 2014, China ranked 52nd with an elderly population accounting for 14.4 percent. In the same year, 96 countries also obtained their national census data, which showed that there were 33 countries in the world where the elderly population exceeded 20 percent.
In the 2030 forecast, among the same 96 countries, China ranked 43rd with an elderly population of 23.8 percent in its total population. By 2030, 14 countries in the world will have more than 30 percent of the elderly population, among them Malta and Slovenia are the only two developing countries.
The countries that have a higher degree of aging population than China are mostly western countries. Only a few are developing countries such as Albania, Argentina, and Montenegro. Conversely, those countries that have a lower percentage of elderly population than China are mostly developing countries.
Among all countries with census records, Japan is facing the most serious aging problem. The elderly population in Japan was 32.8 percent in 2014 and projected to reach 37.5 percent in 2030. In contrast to China, Japan and the European Union countries have all largely solved the problem of taking care of the elderly, even though they have a higher percentage of senior population than that of China.
It can be seen that China’s issue of eldercare does not lie in the problem of an increasingly aging population per se, but the country’s pension and social welfare system, which is a political and economic policy issue. This is especially true when we consider that there are about 77 million elderly people in rural areas, a population group that faces the most serious livelihood problem as they basically have no social welfare such as medical insurance and pension.
Fewer Births Isn’t the Same as the Disappearance of Demographic Dividend
Some people equate declining birth rates with diminishing demographic dividend. It is actually very easy to debunk this statement.
The demographic data of the 96 countries listed by the aforementioned U.N. report showed that the countries with a high proportion of young people were mostly African and Middle Eastern countries, where birth rates were very high, as well as some Asian countries. Brazil, Turkey, Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, South Africa, India, Indonesia, Honduras, Iraq, Pakistan, Jordan, and Bangladesh were all in this category. But it so happens that these countries have the highest youth unemployment rates.
Fewer births/children is a big problem for individual families. It is said that in China, the number of elderly people who lost their only child has exceeded 2 million. As the Chinese traditionally rely on children to care for elderly parents, caring for bereaved parents is a problem that requires the collaborative support of the government and society. But from the perspective of the entire society, fewer births cannot be equated with the disappearance of the demographic dividend. Those who argued otherwise have overlooked a problem: the realization of the demographic dividend requires full or close to full employment of young people.
Ever since China started its “reform and opening up” about 40 years ago, it experienced several phases of rapid employment growth, and naturally realized a demographic dividend to the full extent. The growth in the 1990s was due to the influx of capital from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, and South Korea. China later became the “world’s factory” after joining the World Trade Organization in 2001, and enjoyed a more booming phase in the years that followed.
However, since the 2010s, labor-intensive industries have been gradually moving out of China—its status as the “world’s factory” has begun to wane. It has become increasingly difficult for the youth to find employment, and a large number of them can’t leave the nest and continue to rely on their parents for financial support. The demographic dividend certainly cannot be realized during this time period.
Applicants look at recruitment information displayed at a labor market in Yiwu, China, on Feb. 19, 2016. (VCG/VCG via Getty Images)
To further illustrate this point, let’s do a simple comparison of the youth unemployment rates in different countries. It will help us understand how significant it was for China to have the demographic dividend it enjoyed in the golden decade from 2002 to 2012.
Youth unemployment is a global problem that has been a serious concern for more than 20 years. In October 2000, the International Labor Organization released the report “Global Employment Trends for Youth,” pointing out that during the 20 years between 1999 and 2019, the youth participation in the labor market dropped by 12 percentage points, from 53.1 to 41.2 percent, showing a global downward trend; yet the total number of young people increased by 300 million during the same period.
In terms of regional differences, the 2019 youth employment rate was the highest in North America, which was 52.6 percent. North Africa and the Arab region were the lowest at 27 percent. East Asia’s rate was 45.2 percent, higher than the global average of 41.2 percent.
It’s noteworthy that, as I mentioned earlier, these regions where youth employment rates were among the lowest have the highest percentage of young people. In other words, they were the least aging society. However, young people in these regions still do not have adequate employment opportunities, and these countries have also become the main source of refugees flowing into Europe since 2015.
Apparently, a younger demographic structure is only one of the conditions for realizing the demographic dividend, but this condition does not guarantee a good outcome.
In recent years, China’s status as the “world’s factory” is coming to an end, the industrial chain is being reshaped on a global scale, and the modern industrial system is more dependent on automation equipment and specialized skills. Correspondingly, the real problem is not the decline in birth rates, but the quality of the workforce.
Up to now, China is still the world’s most populous country, and it is heavily dependent on imports for major resources. For example, more than 60 percent of oil and 30 percent of food are imported. In terms of resources, it is a very fragile system.
For a country like China, it is extremely important to avoid the Malthusian trap and to treat its population and demographic problem in a rational manner.
He Qinglian is a prominent Chinese author and economist. Currently based in the United States, she authored “China’s Pitfalls,” which concerns corruption in China’s economic reform of the 1990s, and “The Fog of Censorship: Media Control in China,” which addresses the manipulation and restriction of the press. She regularly writes on contemporary Chinese social and economic issues.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A security person moves journalists away from the Wuhan Institute of Virology after a World Health Organization team arrived for a field visit in Wuhan in China's Hubei Province, on Feb. 3, 2021. (Ng Han Guan/AP Photo)
7 Facts About Virus Research in Wuhan: China Should End Gain-of-Function Research
Commentary
On May 24, the Wall Street Journal published seven key sets of facts that demonstrate that Wuhan virologists, who claim to have been conducting analyses that would help develop vaccines for a then-non-existent pandemic, might have taken undue risk through gain-of-function research or lax lab safety standards, that sparked the COVID-19 pandemic that killed almost 3.5 million people worldwide, and counting. At the very least, the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) is culpable for omitting crucial data that would help the world determine the virus’s origins.
First, six workers from a bat-infested copper mine in the Mojiang region of China, got sick in 2012, and three died. All the sick miners had similar symptoms. A CT scan “revealed severe pneumonia, with the same lung markings now seen in many COVID-19 patients,” according to evidence seen by the Journal. Four miners tested positive for SARS antibodies.
The P4 laboratory (L) at the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan, China, on April 17, 2020. (Hector Retamal/AFP via Getty Images)
Second, WIV scientists suspected a bat-borne coronavirus, and collected samples from 276 bats of at least six different species, from the area. “They extracted genetic material from the samples and sequenced fragments,” according to the Journal. “Half of the samples tested positive for coronaviruses,” including a SARS-type one. “Critically, all six bat species showed evidence of coronavirus co-infection, the researchers found. In other words, the virus could easily exchange genetic material with similar ones to create a new coronavirus—an environment ripe for the creation of new viruses that could potentially infect humans.”
Dr. Shi Zhengli, the top WIV bat coronavirus expert, led that research. Dr. Shi claims to have retested the miners, thereby rejecting the hypothesis that they were infected with SARS-CoV-2.
Third, the WIV once had a public database of 22,000 samples and virus sequences. 15,000 of these were from bats. In September 2019, WIV took the database offline, ostensibly due to over 3,000 cyberattacks.
Fourth, Dr. Shi recently said her team found eight additional SARS-like coronaviruses at the mine. “Many scientists question why the WIV didn’t announce the existence of those viruses earlier, as well as their connection to the mine, and why they waited so long to allow scientists to examine their sequences,” according to the Journal. “Some have noted that Dr. Shi has repeatedly asserted that the Mojiang miners had a suspected fungal infection, not a virus, contradicting research papers at the time and Dr. Shi’s update in [the journal] Nature, which said the miners were thought to have a virus.” Dr. Shi was not fired, so WIV is responsible for her apparent dissimulation.
Fifth, WIV conducted gain-of-function research. Such research makes viruses more lethal and infectious, under highly-controlled circumstances, ostensibly in order to develop vaccines. Some scientists, according to the Journal, say that research papers reveal that WIV employees “were combining some bat coronaviruses they had cultured with genetic material from others.”
“Dr. Shi has publicly described doing experiments, including in 2018 and 2019, to see if various bat coronaviruses could use a spike protein on their surfaces to bind to an enzyme in human cells known as ACE2,” according to the Journal. “That is how both the SARS virus and SARS-CoV-2 infect humans.” The experiments required the combination of a bat coronavirus and the spike protein of another, then the infection of genetically-engineered mice containing human ACE2, according to Dr. Shi.
Chinese virologist Shi Zhengli is seen inside the P4 laboratory in Wuhan, capital of China’s Hubei Province, on Feb. 23, 2017. (Johannes Eisele/AFP via Getty Images)
According to the Journal, “Ralph Baric, a microbiologist at the University of North Carolina … worked with the WIV on a study to create an artificial coronavirus that infected human cells in the lab.” Dr. Baric has some explaining to do. Scientists should not collaborate with totalitarian regimes on dangerous biological research.
Sixth, three WIV researchers got sick in November 2019 and were hospitalized with symptoms consistent with both seasonal flu and COVID-19. This information, obtained by the Journal, was likely from Australia’s intelligence service.
Seventh, Chinese authorities are obstructing researchers and reporters from accessing the copper mine and environs (although one heroic Journal reporter recently managed to make it there by mountain bike to take a photo). Officials detained him for five hours and deleted the photograph.
Scientists are looking at these facts, raising concerns, and demanding more data.
Ian Lipkin, infectious-disease specialist at Columbia University, said WIV experiments on coronaviruses in labs might have been at a lower biosafety level than is required in the United States.
Dr. Ralph Baric believes that the genetic structure of SARS-CoV-2 indicates a wild origin and natural evolution to infect humans, but that a “rigorous investigation would have reviewed the biosafety level under which bat coronavirus research was conducted at WIV … detailed information on the training procedures with records, the safety procedures with records and strategies that were in place to prevent inadvertent or accidental escape,” according to the Journal.
Virologist Bernard Roizman at the University of Chicago told the Journal, “I’m convinced that what happened is that the virus was brought to the lab, they started to work with it … and some sloppy individual brought it out. They can’t admit they did something so stupid.”
Clearly, the gathering and public revelation of more evidence is needed to address these concerns. The WHO-led team tasked with investigating the virus’s origin, only spent three hours at WIV. It was unable to do antibody tests on animals and people near the copper mine. Even WHO Director-General Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus criticized his own team’s investigation as inadequate.
China’s gain-of-function research should be a concern to all. According to the Journal, “Critics say the risk of harmful, genetically enhanced viruses leaking from the lab is too great” to justify any benefit from gain-of-function research that assists in developing vaccines for future potential pandemics.
In 2014, the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) stopped funding gain-of-function research, only to reinstate it in 2017 though under the greater strictures of an expert review panel. China’s restrictions on gain-of-function are less rigorous, and its science is often substandard. It can and is hijacked by an unethical Chinese military under Xi Jinping’s control.
In sum, the WIV lab researchers did not disclose their collaboration with the Chinese military, released discrepant data that appears to evidence dissimulation, and are not being transparent. They failed to provide full access to evidence that could explain the origin of the virus.
Most scientists do believe the lab-leak hypothesis is unlikely relative to natural human-to-animal spillover, which happens much more frequently.
But until China improves its scientific and political ethics, it has no business conducting gain-of-function research. Western scientists should immediately stop putting such powerful technologies into the hands of potentially sloppy and military-linked scientists in China, when the stakes are so high. Continuing to conduct collaborative scientific research with them, given what we know today, is an unjustified risk for the world.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Protesters march past LAPD officers during a demonstration over the death of George Floyd, in Los Angeles, Calif., on June 6, 2020. (Kyle Grillot/AFP via Getty Images)
Defund Police Unions, Not the Police
Commentary
As a relatively new state senator, I did my best to work across the aisle.
One example is my assisting Sen. Mark Leno (D-San Francisco) in February 2016 when I coauthored one of his more ambitious bills. It was Senate Bill 1286, which addressed police officers and their records of misconduct. If approved, this legislation would have required that “personnel records and records relating to complaints against peace officers and custodial officers to be [made] available for public inspection pursuant to the California Public Records Act.”
The bill passed through the Senate Public Safety Committee with five votes; the two Republican members did not vote for the bill. At the time, Steven Greenhut of the Orange County Register opined in favor of SB 1286.
Greenhut wrote: “Because of a 2006 state Supreme Court decision, Californians have had virtually no access to information about police officers who may have engaged in pattern of misbehaviors or who have been involved in multiple shootings. In Copley Press v. Superior Court, the San Diego Union-Tribune sought access to the disciplinary hearing of a San Diego deputy sheriff who appealed his termination.
“The far-reaching ruling blocked the public’s access to information that previously was available and that remains widely accessible in most other states. A 2010 report by the Investigative Fund found that 25 of 27 Fresno police officers who were involved in repeated shootings remained on the force. The Copley decision meant the public had no right to learn who they were. That can allow bad officers to fester within a department.”
The bill was forwarded to the Senate Appropriations Committee, where controversial bills are put on suspense and never see the light of day again. It is like getting a veto before even getting the chance to have a senate floor debate. And this was the outcome with SB 1286.
One can correctly assume that all the public safety unions and associations in California put significant pressure on Sen. Ricardo Lara, the then-chair of appropriations, to kill the bill. They wanted personnel files to be kept confidential. He accommodated that demand.
No wonder Greenhut observed: “Perhaps the nation wouldn’t be facing so much turmoil over police use-of-force issues if there were fewer union prerogatives and more accountability.”
Two years later, Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) would ask me to coauthor a similar bill.
It also passed through the Senate Public Safety Committee, this time receiving two votes in opposition by the Republican members. It would go to Senate Appropriations and this time be forwarded on, despite the two Republican members voting in opposition.
It then was passed on the senate floor with 25 votes, with me being the only Republican to support the bill. It would pass with the same votes on concurrence to accept amendments made by the assembly and barely passed on the Assembly Floor, with 44 votes. It was signed by Gov. Jerry Brown on September 30, 2018.
Why was I the independent Republican? Because eight years on the Orange County Board of Supervisors was an eye-opening experience. There were some 30 lawsuits against the sheriff’s department when I took office.
I learned about the “code of silence.”
I had to deal with the tragic death of John Derek Chamberlain, leading to my creating the Office of Independent Review to monitor the Sheriff’s Department and its employees when acts of misconduct were perpetrated.
What has this transparency law, SB 1421, wrought? According to one recent account, “Troves of misconduct cases emerge from records—Incidents include a deputy romancing a woman while on duty, jailer pummeling an inmate.”
The public employee unions for public safety employees did not want the public to see the underbelly of what occurs when police officers and deputy sheriffs leave the reservation. The nonsense was kept confidential from the general public.
No more.
The good news is that bad behavior by police officers and deputy sheriffs should rapidly decrease. This is good for those who protect and serve us every day at the risk of losing their own lives. It is also good for taxpayers, who should not be subsidizing and unknowingly condoning inappropriate behavior.
Why do we have an occasional rogue officer? With their unions keeping bad behavior secret, they previously could get away with literally anything. And, with these same unions using misinformation and misleading and false claims in political mailers, it enables police officers to lie as well.
Recently, it was reported that two California state prison guards lied about an inmate who had been decapitated by his cellmate, stating that he was alive when they performed their inspections. This behavior must stop.
We need to give our police and county sheriff’s departments all the tools to run pristine and honorable forces. Giving them a tool to address bad apples was long overdue. SB 1421 will increase the public’s trust in those who wear the badge to protect us.
On the anniversary of the tragic George Floyd asphyxiation, let us do our best to encourage excellence in policing. This is not the time to defund police, but it would not hurt to defund police unions, as they have been a negative influence on those they represent.
John Moorlach is a former Orange County Supervisor who most recently served as a state senator. He previously spent 12 years as Orange County’s Treasurer-Tax Collector, and led the county out of bankruptcy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.China Has a Problem With New Working Hands and Minds
Commentary
The Middle Kingdom’s population is aging. It has fewer young people to replace the retiring older generation, the one that manned the machinery of China’s huge advances since Deng Xiaoping abandoned Mao Zedong’s economic model. This demographic challenge presents China’s economy with a huge challenge. The problem is one of Beijing’s own making. It was after all Deng who promulgated the one-child policy that has so limited the supply of young workers. At this point, however, it matters less what caused the problem than that one exists. A shortage of young workers will tend to slow the pace of economic growth and development, and steal much of the dynamism that has thus far characterized Chinese economics.
While Beijing is no doubt aware of this matter, it is strangely absent in many otherwise insightful and detailed western commentaries on and analyses of developing Sino-American relations. It is not that the facts are hidden, but these analyses, perhaps because most of these writers have primarily diplomatic, military, and political instead of economic backgrounds, too often proceed on the assumption that China’s economy will somehow remain unaffected, retain much of its former dynamism, and continue to confront the world with an all-but-unstoppable economic juggernaut.
Perhaps, if China succeeds in its Belt and Road Initiative these assumptions will remain realistic. Likelihoods, however, demand that these analyses, wherever they begin, need to take account of this huge change coming in China, how it will limit that otherwise remarkable economy, and by implication how it will affect Beijing’s capabilities in the years to come, whether economic, political, or diplomatic, as well as military.
In this undated photo, laborers walk through the Gwadar Port in Pakistan, a multi-billion dollar infrastructure project that China has invested in as part of its Belt and Road Initiative. (Amelie Herenstein/AFP/Getty Images)
Today’s developing demographic pressures are radically different from those China enjoyed during the period of its remarkable development. Back in 1979, when Deng abandoned Mao’s failed economic model (and incidentally promulgated the one-child policy) China had an abundance of labor resources.
The part of the population available for work—conventionally designated as those between the ages of 15 and 64—amounted to some 90 percent of the adult population. With nine ready for work for every dependent retiree, China had an easy time meeting the demands of industrialization and development. Compare this to the situation in the United States at the time, which had barely five people of working age for every dependent retiree. But the one-child policy undermined this strength. It brought China’s birth rate below replacement to a mere 1.6 children on average in each woman’s lifetime, according to United Nations demographers. By the mid-1990s, the flow of young people into the workforce began to slow and in this century has fallen short of the numbers retiring. China’s workforce is actually shrinking, both absolutely and relative to the numbers of dependent retirees.
Though Beijing has recently relaxed the one-child policy, it will take 15 to 20 years before any new births can have an impact on the workforce, and besides preliminary data indicates that the fertility rate has failed to rise. Accordingly, U.N. demographers estimate that by 2040, absolute numbers in the country’s working population will have declined 10 percent from today’s level, while its population of dependent retirees will have increased some 50 percent. The economy will have barely three workers for each dependent retiree. That is little different from Japan. Those three workers will have to produce enough for their own needs, those of their other dependents, and one-third of a retiree’s support. China will have little productive surplus for future investments much less the grand projects that have drawn so much attention in the past. The economy will have lost much of its dynamism and flexibility.
Unlike aging western economies, China cannot count on immigration to mitigate this impact. Few are clamoring to get into China, and even if people were, the country’s existing population is so large that the flow would have to surpass all precedents to make a difference. In any case, it is not happening.
Chinese migrant workers arrive to board a train at Shanghai station before returning to their home towns for the Chinese New Year holiday, in Shanghai, China, on Feb. 8, 2007. (Mark Ralston/AFP via Getty Images)
Of course, labor power is not the whole story. Technological advances, especially artificial intelligence (AI), and the productivity increases it will bring will allow a more efficient use of China’s available human resources. No doubt China will make strides in these areas, but the aging demographics will also limit the economy’s abilities to innovate.
Demographers, using patent data and statistics on Nobel Prize winners, have determined that people in the 30 to 40 age cohort provide the bulk of society’s inventiveness. Cross country studies show that this fact holds in all cultures and economic systems. This age cohort in China is set to shrink over the next 20 years from 43 percent of the workforce to 37 percent. This relative loss may do less damage to China’s centrally planned economy than it would to a more open Western economy that depends on competition for innovation, but it is nonetheless hardly a positive for China’s economy going forward.
On the financial side of the equation, the need to care for the elderly will impose additional restraints on China’s economic outlook. With fully 25 percent of the adult population over 64 years of age in 2040, China will qualify as what demographers quaintly call a “super-aged” population, more extreme than even Japan presently. Since at last count, less than 65 percent of Chinese workers have any kind of pension plan, much of the burden of supporting this huge population of retirees will fall on Beijing’s shoulders or on those of the provincial and local governments, which in China amounts to the same thing. These huge financial demands will absorb tremendous amounts of government resources. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates that already Beijing’s unfunded pension obligations amount to 100 percent of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). Unless Beijing’s decision makers act quickly, which they seem to have no inclination to do, that burden will only grow.
Against this backdrop, Beijing may well see the Belt and Road Initiative as a way to mitigate the demographic effects. If before the demographic pressures become intense, this initiative allows China to amass the ownership and control of foreign facilities, the country will have acquired a partial substitute for what it will lose in its domestic economic capabilities. Presently, China mostly uses its own labor to construct and run projects in the Belt and Road, but in time it could, much as the British Empire did, use native labor, reserving for its own citizens management roles. Perhaps, as also happened with the British Empire, the arrangement would garner for China a loyalty among a group of natives that supersedes that group’s loyalty to the local or national authority.
None of this says that China will disappear as a major power or that its economy will cease growing. It does say, however, that contrary to many of today’s media discussions and analyses of Sino-American relations, China’s economic growth rate will slow appreciably going forward, as will its pace of development and innovation.
Beijing will be less able than in the past to wow observers with grand investment schemes. Circumstances will also impose on Beijing’s military and space ambitions, though these are inexpensive in both financial and economic terms compared with either broad-based development or future pension demands. China will begin to resemble Japan in crucial ways, except that Japan got rich before it aged, whereas China, still not rich, will age first.
Milton Ezrati is a contributing editor at The National Interest, an affiliate of the Center for the Study of Human Capital at the University at Buffalo (SUNY), and chief economist for Vested, the New York-based communications firm. His latest book is “Thirty Tomorrows: The Next Three Decades of Globalization, Demographics, and How We Will Live.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.New Math Policies Would Hurt Gifted Students
Commentary
Perhaps Alan Erisman, who headed a team of applied mathematicians at Boeing, sums up the education of numbers best.
Erisman, author of the upcoming book “The Math Myth,” says, “If we taught English the way we teach math, students would spend all their time doing spelling tests and diagramming sentences but never read a great book or ever read poetry.”
That seems to be one of the issues the California’s Instructional Quality Commission is seeking to address as it updates its list of suggestions to math instructors. It’s seeking to determine how to help students reach the math standards established by the state.
Williamson Evers, former U.S. assistant secretary of education for planning, evaluation, and policy development, said the commission may have overstepped its original position. Evers, now a senior fellow at the Oakland, California-based Independent Institute, wrote an opinion piece about the matter to expose the issue.
In his Wall Street Journal article, Evers said the new framework would no longer aim to have students learn algebra by Grade 8, which is necessary for students to get to calculus by Grade 12 and satisfy a basic requirement of many selective colleges.
The original proposed framework also rejected the idea of tracking, whereby students are grouped according to mathematical skill. Tracking has proved to be beneficial, especially for high-achieving students.
Perhaps most damning of all, the original proposal called eight times for the state to follow the suggestions of the Pathway to Equitable Math Instruction: Resources and Guidance to support Black, LatinX, and Multilingual Students to thrive in grades 6-8.
That document originally stated: “The concept of mathematics being purely objective is unequivocally false,” and that “Upholding the idea that there are always right and wrong answers perpetuates ‘objectivity.’”
In a later conversation with The Epoch Times, Evers said that the guidelines as originally promulgated were “not fair to California students” and “would deny them the opportunity to flourish according to their special talent.”
Indeed, he said, “it is very destructive to people with special gifts in math.”
Since the time of Evers’s op-ed piece, the framework no longer calls for the use of that so-called “pathway” document, and the document itself no longer attacks the idea of objectivity.
Francis Su, author of the book Mathematics for Human Flourishing and math instructor at Harvey-Mudd college in Claremont, California, agrees with Erisman.
He said many teachers focus too much on just rote memorization rather than helping students see all the ways math gets applied in the real world. He noted that one of the things the new proposed framework gets right is that there is not just one way to solve a problem and that as long as students get to the correct answer, teachers should not necessarily temper the creative thinking of those who can get to the correct answer using a method other than the one prescribed.
There is in math instruction the concept of “standard algorithms,” which some might call the “right” way to solve a problem but which could be more correctly termed the “standard” way of solving that particular kind of equation.
Standard algorithms are taught because they’re the most succinct way to get to a solution.
And one of the many goals of math instruction is to help students develop as many standard algorithms as possible so that when they encounter a new math problem in real life, they have a large set of mathematical tools to draw from to solve the problem.
Math professor Su is quick to note that whether balancing a checkbook, calculating how much seed to buy for a lawn, or trying to get the next spacecraft to Mars, people use math every day.
He told The Epoch Times that proponents of tracking are usually focused on the high achievers and not wanting them to be held back.
The proponents want those high-achieving students to thrive and have all the opportunities to which their proclivities for math might take them.
On the other hand, opponents of tracking are often focused on students in the lower tracks and are focused more on social justice or concerns for the poor.
People are often surprised to learn that students in the lower tracks often get the most inexperienced teachers and are often taught with the worst methods in non-enriching environments.
In a speech he gave when he stepped down as head of the Mathematical Association of America, Su challenged his colleagues by asking how many of them actually want to teach lower-track students.
If done correctly, math instruction can be done in such a way that allows each student to achieve his or her highest and best level of success.
When The Epoch Times spoke to Evers, he said that if done incorrectly, “California public schools would risk losing their best math students to charter schools, parochial schools, and other private schools” that wouldn’t be hobbled by guidelines constraining the best in math education.
During the most recent comment period, some 1,200 letters were sent with about one-quarter opposed both to the use of the so-called “pathway” and to any reference of race in math instruction. As such, those references seem to have been removed.
After California’s Department of Education and the Instructional Quality Commission revise the recommendations, there will be another 60 day review period during June and July when the public can again make its comments known.
Tim Shaler is a professional investor and economist based in Southern California. He is a regular columnist for The Epoch Times, where he exclusively provides some of his original economic analysis.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.China’s Bio-Economic War on the World Has Begun to Backfire
Commentary
In May 2014, I quit kidding myself and realized that China was at war with the United States. I realized China intended to dominate the world by mandating the terms of international engagement. This meant China was at war with the world—moderating treaties, legal notions, and productive trust be damned.
May 2014’s triggering event: 70 or so Chinese vessels escorted an oil-drilling ship into waters claimed by both Vietnam and China—with Vietnam’s claim being more credible and diplomatically defensible. Vietnam reported the Chinese flotilla included seven armed coast guard and navy ships—seven warships. The inclusion of warships makes a case that the incursion was an act of war.
The invading drill ship anchored 120 miles off the Vietnamese coast, inside Vietnam’s 200-mile Exclusive Economic Zone as defined by the 1982 U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea. China signed that treaty and promised to respect it.
The war-making bottom line: China violated Vietnam’s territorial sovereignty and broke an international treaty by encroaching on Vietnam’s EEZ. Deploying a state-owned billion-dollar drilling ship is a calculated political action that demonstrated Beijing intended to steal Vietnamese natural resources.
On May 13, 2014, I wrote a column analyzing the clash. The column connected China’s aggression to Russia’s spring 2014 invasion and annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula. Russia’s “Crimean Precedent”—the brazen military invasion and political annexation of sovereign territory—shredded several post-Cold War diplomatic agreements. But like Vladimir Putin’s Kremlin, communist Beijing didn’t give a damn about legalities.
Russia’s strategically revealing Crimean crime reprised fascist aggression in Europe (Germany and Italy), Africa (Italy), and Asia (Imperial Japan) in the 1930s. And communism is fascism wrapped in faculty club jargon, so include Stalin’s Russia in that aggressor list.
Fact: The Boys in Beijing have been waging war on America since the 1990s. I wrote a column in 2010 that asked why China was building a large navy. I suspected the answer was dark but hoped that wealth would create a Chinese middle class that demanded freedom and moderation and peace.
Wrong. Chinese economic prowess merely fed its communist totalitarian war machine.
Connoisseurs of newspaper essays will accuse me of burying the lede (sinking my key point deep in the essay). Guilty—but with reason. The historical background supports the global significance of this week’s sobering news: the likelihood that the COVID-19 virus (the Communist Chinese Party virus is another name) escaped by accident or on purpose from a Chinese laboratory in the city of Wuhan and infected the entire planet.
The Wall Street Journal has published an in-depth analysis of the evidence.
In February 2020, Senator Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) suggested the virus may have escaped a research lab in Wuhan. The major mainstream media narrative: Cotton was damned, snarked, and ridiculed, from The New York Times to CNN to Xinhua (the Chinese “official” news agency).
Xinhua spews propaganda. You trust The New York Times and CNN? Perhaps it’s time you woke. (Does woke satirize Antifa and BLM lingo? You decide.)
Even Dr. Tony Fauci says that the possibility that the COVID-19 escaped from a lab in Wuhan “certainly exists” and he’s “totally in favor of a full investigation of whether that could have happened.”
In spring 2020, Fauci and his bureaucrat cadre (which includes the mainstream media dolts) dissed Cotton.
Fauci et al. owe Cotton an apology.
China lied about the origins of the virus, and people died, planet-wide. Bumper sticker: China lied, people died, planet-wide.
In 2020, I wrote a column arguing that China’s dictatorship hid critical information about the virus, for fear of being exposed as incompetent. Realizing the pandemic’s threat, Beijing’s communist thugs in charge apparently decided to export it to the rest of the world so China would not suffer alone.
That’s an act of war on the world.
China’s communist dictators decided to wage bioeconomic warfare on the world. If Donald Trump were president, that decision would cost Beijing. With Slow Joe in charge? I’m not so sure. But the facts are coming out. And when they do, blowback is inevitable.
Austin Bay is a colonel (ret.) in the U.S. Army Reserve, author, syndicated columnist, and teacher of strategy and strategic theory at the University of Texas–Austin. His latest book is “Cocktails from Hell: Five Wars Shaping the 21st Century.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A golfer tees off at Loch March Golf and Country Club in Ottawa on May 22, 2021, as golf courses and other outdoor recreation facilities reopen in Ontario. (The Canadian Press/Justin Tang)
Why the Pandemic Played Out Differently Across the Developed World
Commentary
Perhaps the most noteworthy feature of the pandemic is that there was no uniform pattern of impact across advanced countries. The pandemic unfolded differently in each developed country, and governments that spent more did not as a rule more successfully contain the virus or better maintain their economies.
From the first reports of a pneumonia of unknown origin in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic grew and spread around the world, with massive impacts on health, mortality rates, economies, and government budgets. Currently, the global tally is nearly 165 million cases and 3.5 million deaths. With the spread of new variants and differential rates of vaccination around the world, the effects of the pandemic will continue to reverberate worldwide.
However, we can already learn from this pandemic to help shape responses to future outbreaks.
Many people, including policymakers, view the pandemic as unprecedented or surprising, but only because the technological and economic progress of the 21st century—and resulting high living standards—has caused many to lose historical perspective. Plague and pestilence have been part of the human experience since the start of recorded history. Pandemics have happened before and will happen again. Nevertheless, many countries were caught unprepared for COVID-19.
Moreover, the pandemic did not strike everyone simultaneously, and even with additional time, some advanced countries seemed unable to heed warning signs and act quickly to implement proactive measures. Despite our instantaneous 21st-century communication and information dissemination, many countries seemingly had to experience their own pandemic before taking the matter seriously—even countries that experienced past viral outbreaks such as SARS.
As such, the pandemic’s effects were surprisingly severe in developed countries. For example, the International Monetary Fund’s advanced economies, which comprise only 18 percent of all countries, in 2020 accounted for 40 percent of the 30 countries with the highest COVID-19 deaths per million (although the older populations of advanced countries were a key factor in initial death tolls).
In the absence of vaccines or effective treatments, the world’s first year of the pandemic response unfolded more like a medieval plague or the Spanish flu. Control efforts consisted largely of face-masking, quarantines, lockdowns, and physical distancing. In the end, unlike the Black Death, it was not the deaths from COVID-19 per se that devastated economies, but rather the restrictions and stringent measures imposed by government to reduce spread. Lockdowns, quarantines, and travel restrictions disrupted global supply chains and had severe economic impacts on the international travel industry, labour-intensive services, food and accommodation, tourism, and the arts and entertainment sectors. Indeed, a one unit increase in the Oxford Stringency Index, which tracks government policy responses to the pandemic based on data from more than 180 countries, was associated with an approximate percentage point drop in real GDP growth of 0.1 percent.
Moreover, as noted in a new study published by the Fraser Institute, prolonged levels of stringent government restrictions did not significantly reduce COVID-19 case counts or deaths per million. On the plus side, high rates of testing helped control mortality rates, with each additional 100,000 tests per million associated with 21 fewer COVID-19 deaths per million. And again, countries with larger elderly populations experienced higher COVID-19 mortality rates.
Crucially, the number of hospital beds played a key role. Internationally, each additional hospital bed (per 1,000 people) was associated with 31.5 fewer COVID-19 deaths per million. Even among advanced countries, there are substantial variations in bed numbers. In 2020, hospital beds per 1,000 ranged from highs of 13.1 in Japan, 12.2 in South Korea and 8.0 in Germany to lows of 2.5 in Canada and Denmark, 2.4 in Singapore and 2.2 in Sweden.
In the end, though all countries experienced the pandemic, its intensity and severity varied as did the economic impact, and there wasn’t always a direct linear relationship between the intensity of the disease and the economic and fiscal impact. Indeed, countries with governments that spent more did not necessarily experience a better outcome in either maintaining their economies or containing the virus.
Clearly, how each country chose to play the cards they were dealt was an important determinant of the health and economic impacts reported during the pandemic’s first year.
Livio Di Matteo is professor of economics at Lakehead University and senior fellow at the Fraser Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.President Joe Biden speaks about the American Rescue Plan and the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) for small businesses in response to coronavirus in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 22, 2021. (Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images)
Battling Biden’s Racist Rescue Plan
Commentary
The Biden administration is poised to hand out billions of dollars to what it misleadingly labels “socially disadvantaged” farmers, restaurateurs, and other business owners hurt by the pandemic. The money will start flowing to them in early June … provided they don’t have white skin. Whites are out of luck.
Biden’s American Rescue Plan defines “socially disadvantaged” based on skin color and ancestry, not the hardships faced by an individual. Blacks, American Indians, Alaskan Natives, Asians, Hispanics, and Pacific Islanders are included. One group is excluded: whites.
Fortunately, the new law’s anti-white provisions are being challenged in court, and the challengers are likely to win. The U.S. Constitution forbids discrimination based on race.
One of the Midwestern farmers suing, Adam Faust, was born with spina bifida and has two prosthetic legs. He manages to milk 70 cows a day and grow 200 acres worth of feed crops. He’s in debt, but he doesn’t qualify for debt forgiveness under the American Rescue Plan because of his white skin.
Last month, a Texas farmer, who is the state’s agricultural commissioner, also sued. Like Faust, he argued that the Constitution’s Equal Protection Clause guarantees him equal treatment regardless of his race.
That is a Texas cafe owner’s claim as well. Philip Greer’s cafe lost $100,000 during the shutdown. He applied to the Restaurant Revitalization Fund set up under the American Rescue Plan. The fund offers restauranteurs up to $5 million to cover losses per location. But Greer is white. The law says for the first 21 days funds are disbursed, most white men have to go to the back of the line, behind women, veterans, and “socially and economically disadvantaged” applicants.
Greer sued. On May 18, federal Judge Reed O’Connor determined that Greer is likely to succeed at trial. He ordered the Small Business Administration to halt its discriminatory practices and consider Greer’s application immediately. The judge pointed out the obvious, that the fund’s $29 billion would likely be distributed before Greer and other white male applicants made it to the front of the line.
Citing Supreme Court precedent, O’Connor cautioned against giving “government license to create a patchwork of racial preferences based on statistical generalizations.” Amen.
Just because blacks make up a small percentage of restaurant owners or farmers doesn’t, by itself, prove past racism or justify discriminating against another group now.
Basketball teams are disproportionately black, but no one is suggesting lowering the basket for whites and Asians.
Overturning the American Rescue Plan’s racist provisions is key because otherwise, Democrats will move ahead with more extreme measures. Next up is the Justice for Black Farmers Act “to encourage a new generation of black farmers” at a cost of $100 billion.
It’s being pushed by five Democrats on the Senate agricultural committee including Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock.
The bill awards 160 acres, a home mortgage, a loan for farming equipment, and agricultural training to 200,000 recipients over 10 years, setting them up to be farmers. The only qualification is a parent of African ancestry. No agricultural experience required.
What could go wrong? It’s a reckless use of taxpayers’ money to buy and give away 32 million acres based on one principle only—racial bias.
Taxpayers would rather set up their own kids for life, rather than somebody else’s kids solely because they’re black. It’s reparations by another name.
Most Americans oppose racial preferences, though Democratic politicians push them. Voters in California and Washington State, two of the bluest states, recently rejected ballot measures for affirmative action.
The public agrees with Chief Justice John Roberts that “the way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.” In 2022, the Republican Party should present itself as the anti-discrimination party, offering voters a stark choice between racial preferences and colorblind fairness.
For now, the battle to defeat the anti-white provisions of Biden’s American Rescue Plan will be decided in court. Fortunately, that’s where the Constitution still matters.
Betsy McCaughey, Ph.D., is a political commentator, constitutional expert, syndicated columnist, and author of several books, including “The Obama Health Law: What It Says and How to Overturn,” and “The Next Pandemic.” She is also a former lieutenant governor of New York.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Security personnel stand guard outside the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan as members of the World Health Organization (WHO) team investigating the origins of COVID-19 make a visit to the institute in Wuhan, China, on Feb. 3, 2021. (Hector Retamal /AFP via Getty Images)
Wuhan Gain-of-Function Research and Lies: US Should Declassify Info Now
Commentary
New details about China’s inadequately-regulated gain-of-function virology research, and factual omissions by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which secretly collaborated with China’s military, are sufficiently concerning as to require that first, scientific collaboration with the totalitarian country should cease, and second, President Biden should immediately declassify information on the source of the virus.
The Wall Street Journal reported details on May 24 about the Chinese lab’s gain-of-function research and apparent dissimulation, along with western scientific concerns about lax standards, that highlight the danger of any science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) collaboration with a country that threatened war against the United States and allies, including Taiwan and the Philippines, is prosecuting a genocide, and unleashed a virus that killed 590,000 Americans and almost 3.5 million worldwide.
Yes, there should be a full lab probe of not only WIV, but other Chinese virology labs. Demanding as much is a no-brainer, but the United States failed in this duty to protect our citizens through transparency. The European Union, at least, did demand an investigation of the lab-leak hypothesis on May 25.
The Democrats, both in the White House and through their control of Congress, are obstructing release of critical intelligence about WIV to the public. That intelligence is required to get to the bottom of suspicions about a lab leak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the COVID-19 disease.
In April, Senators Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) and Mike Braun (R-Ind.) introduced the COVID-19 Origin Act of 2021 to force the Biden administration to declassify relevant intelligence. But it has little hope of passing the Democrat-controlled Congress. We may have to wait until midterm elections in 2022 for Congress to be able to extract a modicum of satisfaction from the President.
Until then, and the completion of a full probe to the satisfaction of the world’s leading virologists, America must take measures to protect itself. U.S. corporate STEM cooperation with China, including by corporations, universities, and individual academics, must cease.
China’s lack of basic scientific transparency on SARS-CoV-2 proves that for the time being, at least, the country is not following the most fundamental of scientific ethics, much less ethics against genocide, and so is not fit for international scientific collaboration on dangerous pathogens.
The immense power of the pandemic to kill millions of people, and slow the world’s economy, along with WIV’s military ties and lack of transparency, shows that President Biden and the Democrat-led Congress must stop obstructing Republican senators’ attempts at investigation and start declassifying information. STEM collaboration with China should meanwhile cease until the country becomes less internationally aggressive, and returns to ethical and transparent scientific and political practices.
Continued failure to take the strongest precautions against China’s out-of-control science is culpable neglect by our own government and an outrageous dereliction of its duty to protect the American public.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A Test for the Nation in Virginia Governor’s Race
Commentary
Americans may not have to wait until 2022 to sense the potential for Republicans to move the nation back in a conservative direction.
The race for governor in Virginia, one of just two major elections taking place this year, could be a barometer of national sentiment.
Republicans have just nominated a dream-team ticket, combining talent and achievement with all the diversity demands of today’s political marketplace.
The nominee is investor/businessman Glenn Youngkin, who campaigned for his party’s nomination as a “conservative, Christian outsider.” Youngkin is a wealthy man who was co-CEO of the highly respected investment firm The Carlyle Group.
On the ticket for lieutenant governor is former Marine Winsome Sears, a conservative black woman and immigrant from Jamaica.
Running for attorney general is Jason S. Miyares, a member of the state legislature and son of a Cuban immigrant.
This conservative ticket—pro-Second Amendment gun rights, pro-family, pro-life, promoting growth through lower taxes and less regulation—advertises the truth those on the left wish to muzzle: that the conservative values that built America are not “white values” but universally true American values.
The state of Virginia is an appropriate laboratory for this test because Virginia is a poster child for the maladies of our nation.
Virginia was for years a solid red state. Virginians voted for Republicans in every presidential election from 1952 through 2004, with the exception of 1964. It has picked Democrats in every election since—2008, 2012, 2016 and 2020.
What’s happening?
The population growth of the state has been in northern Virginia, which is basically a suburb of Washington, D.C. From 2010 to 2019, according to University of Virginia research, northern Virginia accounted for 66.5 percent of the state’s population growth.
Per Washington Post reporting of a 2017 study from Old Dominion University: “Virginia’s fortunes are more tied to the federal budget than those of perhaps any other state. Almost 30 percent of Virginia’s gross domestic product—its total output of goods and services—is directly related to federal spending.”
Given that government is increasingly the meal ticket for northern Virginians, it should be no surprise that Democrats—the party of big government—are increasingly becoming the party of Virginia.
In 2020, Joe Biden won 51.3 percent of the vote nationwide, and Donald Trump won 46.8 percent. In Virginia, Biden got 54.1 percent and Trump 44 percent.
Even among white voters nationwide, Biden got 41 percent and Trump 58 percent. But in Virginia, Biden won 45 percent of white voters and Trump won 53 percent.
In northern Virginia’s Fairfax County, with a median household income of $124,831, 70.4 percent of the vote went for Biden and 28.2 percent for Trump.
As more Virginians benefit from the largesse of profligate government, they increasingly turn to Democrats, who promote this government meal ticket while advancing policies that are destroying our country.
The inflation that many have been worried about, due to excessive government spending producing record deficits and debt, is beginning to show itself in the marketplace.
Recent Census Bureau reports showing historically low birth rates mean there is an aging population—a direct result of the collapse of family and an increase in pro-abortion attitudes and policies.
What is happening in Virginia points to the same trend nationally: more citizens getting government money and thus getting behind policies that are destroying our country.
Leadership can turn things around.
This dream-team Republican ticket in Virginia must run on principles and patriotism and against the moral and fiscal profligacy that is taking us down the path to moral and fiscal bankruptcy.
Virginia’s Hispanic population has grown substantially in recent years and is now an electoral force. Hispanics are the nation’s youngest demographic. They should be particularly sensitive to policies that jeopardize our future.
Sanctity of life, sanctity of family, and sanctity of ownership and markets is what Virginia and America needs for a future. For this, America needs Republicans.
Star Parker is the founder and president of the Center for Urban Renewal and Education (CURE) and host of the new weekly news talk show “Cure America with Star Parker.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The P4 laboratory building at the Wuhan Institute of Virology is shown in Wuhan, China, on May 13, 2020. (Hector Retamal/AFP via Getty Images)
Dr. Fauci Makes the Case for Investigation of Wuhan Lab
US-funded lab conducted dangerous gain-of-function research
Commentary
Dr. Anthony Fauci recently told reporters he is “not convinced” that COVID-19 developed naturally. Then on Monday, the chief White House medical advisor contended it was “highly likely” that the virus “occurred naturally before spreading from animal to human.” In similar style on March 28, Fauci told Margaret Brennan of CBS News that “there is no evidence that suggests the virus was created in a laboratory.” These baffling reversals should come as no surprise.
Anthony Fauci earned a medical degree in 1966, when the government was drafting physicians for military hospitals in Vietnam. To avoid that duty, Dr. Fauci hired on with the federal National Institutes of Health, in what he conceded was a “cushy job.”
Fauci’s bio shows no advanced degrees in molecular biology or biochemistry, so strictly speaking he is not a virologist. Even so, Fauci became head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) in 1984.
As Michael Fumento showed in “The Myth of Heterosexual AIDS,” Fauci was wrong that AIDS would ravage the American population on a wide scale. UC Berkeley molecular biologist Peter Duesberg, author of “Inventing the AIDS Virus,” encountered Fauci as the government spokesman for “AIDS thought control.”
The longtime NIAID boss is now the government mouthpiece for pandemic thought control, contending that there is “no evidence” that the novel coronavirus was engineered in a laboratory. In reality, the evidence has been steadily mounting, and it points to the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV), which received shipments of deadly pathogens from a lab in Canada.
The pathogens shipped to China by Dr. Xiangguo Qiu included Ebola Makona, Mayinga, Kikwit, Ivory Coast, Bundibugyo, Sudan Boniface, Sudan Gulu, MA-Ebov, GP-Ebov, GP-Sudan, Henra, Nipah Malaysia, and Nipah Bangladesh. These would be useful in gain-of-function research, which according to the Office of Science Policy of the National Institutes of Health, can “enhance the pathogenicity or transmissibility of potential pandemic pathogens (PPPs)” and raise “biosafety and biosecurity concerns.”
In 2012, Fauci raised safety concerns about this research, which the NIH banned in 2014 but revived in 2017. The NIAID boss authorized grants to the Wuhan lab, where gain-of-function research could be conducted in secret, with no accountability to Americans.
Fauci is uncritical of Communist China and a big fan of World Health Organization boss Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, a non-physician and major apologist of China. Fauci now claims to welcome an investigation of China’s role in the pandemic. As they turn the light on the WIV, investigators would be wise to focus on the role of Dr. Fauci.
The NIAID boss, in government for 53 years, is currently the highest paid bureaucrat in the entire federal government. With a salary of $417,608, Fauci is paid more than the president of the United States but never has to face the voters. By his own account, the longtime bureaucrat likes wielding that kind of unchecked power.
“With all due modesty, I think I’m pretty effective,” Fauci told Norah O’Donnell of CBS in a July 15, 2020 interview with InStyle. “I certainly am energetic. And I think everybody thinks I’m doing more than an outstanding job.” In light of Dr. Fauci’s evasions and reversals, everybody might not think so. Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) recently proposed the FIRED Act, “Fauci Incompetence Requires Early Dismissal.”
In a House Appropriations Committee hearing on Tuesday, Fauci defended “modest” collaboration with Chinese scientists in Wuhan on the study of bat coronaviruses, while contending that NIAID did not allocate money for gain-of-function research. The NIAID director did not specify what kind of research had in fact taken place.
Investigators should make public all NIH and NIAID communications with the Wuhan Institute of Virology and any intermediary agencies, public or private. Did the NIH, CDC, WIV, and WHO agree on messaging? Why did the CDC’s vaunted Epidemic Intelligence Service fail to stop COVID-19 from arriving in America?
What did Dr. Anthony Fauci know about the Wuhan lab? When did he know it, and what did he do about it? The American people, who have suffered so much, have a right to know.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A sold sign is posted in front of a home in a new housing development in San Francisco, in this file photo. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
Home Inventory Remains Low in Strange Start to Home-Buying Season
Commentary
U.S. home prices continued to climb in March and have risen nearly 15 percent since the beginning of 2020.
That is the takeaway of a U.S. housing market analysis by Standard & Poors, in conjunction with CoreLogic. The study was completed using a method advocated by Nobel-laureate Robert Schiller, which uses actual home price transactions compared to the property’s previous sale price.
Home prices in many western cities are climbing much faster than home prices nationally. In Seattle, prices are up 24 percent since the beginning of 2020; In Phoenix, they were up 22.5 percent during that same period.
Within California, home prices during that 15 month period were up 21.8 percent in San Diego, 15.5 percent in San Francisco and 15.2 percent in Los Angeles.
The Epoch Times analysis of the Standard & Poors CoreLogic data analyzed home prices from Jan. 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 to provide some context excluding the dramatic slowdown in home-buying activity during Spring 2020, when the pandemic caused panic buying of home goods and panic selling of financial products.
From the decrease in urban rental rates and the dramatic increase in suburban housing prices, it is easily determined that many renters from urban centers moved away from higher density areas and purchased homes in less dense, suburban areas.
At the same time, the inventory of existing homes for sale is far below levels in 2018 and 2019.
According to recent data from the National Association of Realtors, in 2018 there were enough homes for sale to supply four months of house-buying activity. In 2019, there was 3.9 months of supply.
However, in April, there was just 2.4 months of supply for the expected level of demand from home-buyers. The total number of homes for sale in April was only 1.16 million nationwide, down substantially from the 1.53 million homes for sale in 2018.
The National Association of Realtors’ (NAR) chief economist Lawrence Yun, said, “First-time buyers in particular are having trouble securing that first home for a multitude of reasons, including not enough affordable properties, competition with cash buyers and properties leaving the market at such a rapid pace.”
The NAR said properties remained on the market on average only 17 days in April, with 88 percent of homes being on the market for less than a month.
First time home-buyers represented 31 percent of sales in April while individuals buying a second home or buying a home as an investment represented 17 percent of sales during the month. Individual investors make up many of the all-cash buyers. All-cash buyers represented 25 percent of all buyers in April, according to the NAR.
Looking forward, Yun expects “more inventory [to] come to the market later this year as further COVID-19 vaccinations are administered and potential home sellers become more comfortable listing and showing their homes. The falling number of homeowners in mortgage forbearance will also bring about more inventory.”
If that happens, home price appreciation might slow down and home-buyers might start to have a little bit more choice in their home-buying decision. Meantime, the tight supply still makes much of the U.S.—and much of the Western U.S. in particular—a strong seller’s market.
Tim Shaler is a professional investor and economist based in Southern California. He is a regular columnist for The Epoch Times, where he exclusively provides some of his original economic analysis.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.China’s Snub of US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin Is Our Problem, and Beijing’s
Commentary
U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin has repeatedly requested, since Biden’s presidency, a meeting with China’s top military officer, only to be rebuffed, according to information revealed by U.S. defense officials in a May 21 Financial Times report. Beijing’s snub of Mr. Austin is being interpreted by some, optimistically, as a petty bureaucratic rivalry. However, the dispute indicates dangerously self-defeating behavior on the part of both Beijing and Washington D.C., just as military tensions are increasing between the United States and allies on one side, and China and its allies, on the other.
The United States is showing weakness by seeking military meetings with China, and China is broadcasting aggression through its imperious approach to America’s leading defense official. The combination sets conditions for a Chinese overstep, and American militarized response.
Tensions with China include those over Taiwan, the South and East China Seas, China’s territorial transgressions against India, Myanmar (Burma), and Bhutan, China’s kidnapping of foreigners, including the approximately 900-day illegal detention of Canada’s Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor, the COVID-19 pandemic, the Uyghur genocide, and continued intellectual property theft from the United States valued as high as $600 billion annually. Xi Jinping appears particularly focused against Taiwan, whose air defense identification zone (ADIZ) suffered a record number of Chinese military incursions in March. This year, China’s air force simulated attacks on the U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt aircraft carrier.
The list of U.S. and allied grievances with Beijing is so high as to increase frustration significantly in Washington, and in particular at the Pentagon. The U.S. military’s strength, along with its commitment to human rights, a system of free and independent nation-states, and international law, give it a special responsibility to protect Americans and world order, which it has been attempting to do against would-be dictators from Joseph Stalin in the 1930s to Saddam Hussein and the Taliban in the 21st century.
China should be jumping at the chance to engage with Biden’s top defense official, if nothing else to gauge his level of frustration and the risk of war. Yet, Beijing is not only skipping the opportunity to meet Mr. Austin, but humiliating him and his team, including President Biden, publicly.
Mr. Austin’s imbroglio indicates that Xi Jinping is not reversing his belligerent course. Since Biden became president, Xi has publicly threatened war against Taiwan, and against the United States in an only slightly more veiled manner. The public nature of Xi’s threats is relatively new, though according to Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, he made a private threat against the U.S. ally in 2017.
According to the Financial Times, Secretary Austin made three requests to speak directly with General Xu Qiliang, China’s most senior military official. Three individuals briefed on the matter said China refused to engage. A U.S. defense official told the FT, “The Chinese military has not been responsive” to requests for an Austin-Xu meeting. Instead, the regime offered Mr. Austin a lower-ranking officer, Wei Fenghe, who does not sit on the 25-member ruling politburo.
Chinese vice chairman of the Central Military Commission Xu Qiliang attends the opening ceremony of the National People’s Congress at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on March 5, 2016. (Wang Zhao/AFP via Getty Images)
General Mark Milley, Chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, has also not spoken to his counterpart since early January, just before Joe Biden was sworn in as president.
China’s bureaucratic protocol issues with meeting U.S. military officials appears to be a persistent problem. Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for East Asia Heino Klinck told the Financial Times that agreement on protocol for meetings with China was always challenging. Klinck, who has eight years of experience living and working in the Asia-Pacific area, attributed the bureaucratic impasse to the different military structures of the two countries. I disagree.
More likely, China is attempting to intimidate, or assert symbolic dominance over, the United States by withholding its top leadership from meetings with the top leadership of the United States and other countries. By doing so, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) seeks to establish that the United States and other countries are subordinate, not equal, to China. Exceptions are made when countries are particularly submissive, in which case Xi Jinping and his top lieutenants might “grant” an audience. Exceptions can also be made towards powers seen as dangerous or highly necessary to China.
That domineering approach would be consistent with China’s historical view of itself as the ”central kingdom” (zhongguo, 中国) ruling over “all under heaven” (tianxia, 天下). There is a blurring of the concept of the Chinese state, and the world, here, that clashes with Western notions of the clearly-demarcated system of Westphalian states, but does not clash with the imperialism that, since the early-to-mid 20th century, the United States and allies have rejected.
The terms “Chinese” and “China” are also subject to a historical fluidity that unfortunately allows intellectually for China to claim new territories and peoples, for example Tibetans and Uyghurs, and turn them into “Chinese” living in “China.” Americans and other liberal Westerners have done the same in their own territories, for example against Native Americans in the 19th century, but less so in and after the 20th century.
Conversely, Xi Jinping appears to still be living in a 19th-century world in which might makes right, and in which he has a chance at avenging past wrongs against “China” by returning the country to its “rightful” place as the central kingdom of a global empire. Beijing does not seem to demonstrate equal respect for other members of the international system, especially its neighbors, and is using incrementalism (the salami slicing tactic identified by Thomas Schelling) to take their territory. China’s recent protocol issues with the Pentagon are indicative of the Xi regime’s imperialistic mindset.
But the CCP’s snub of Mr. Austin is also a mistake of our own making. The Secretary should never have sought a meeting in the first place. Neither should former Secretary of Defense James Mattis have done so in 2018, when he managed to meet Xu Qiliang in Beijing. The Pentagon’s readout of that meeting notes that “Secretary Mattis acknowledged potential areas of cooperation, including shared interest in the denuclearization of North Korea.” There was no mention of a like interest in “cooperation” by Mr. Xu.
U.S. secretaries of defense who placate foreign enemies with meetings broadcast weakness, and open themselves up to compromise. Mr. Mattis, for example, is now working for Cohen Group, which is led by former Secretary of Defense William Cohen. The group opened two offices in China in 2006 and 2007. Mr. Austin’s apparent desperation to meet with Chinese officials could be seen by Xi Jinping as a similar attempt at obtaining personal gain.
The better American military approach to the Xi regime is to leave diplomacy to the State Department, and if China gets too close, prepare for battle. This is the image we need of our military. Aloof and dangerous. That’s the only way to retain the CCP’s respect and keep it at a distance. When they come asking for a meeting, refuse.
Against a highly aggressive adversary like Beijing, projecting strength includes inspiring fear in the enemy. Xi understands the tactic only too well. As should be clear from the recent snub of Mr. Austin, Beijing is starting to use it against us.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Voters stand in line to cast their ballots during the first day of early voting in the U.S. Senate runoff, in Atlanta, Ga., on Dec. 14, 2020. (Jessica McGowan/Getty Images)
The Coming Un-Silent Majority Will Bring Victory to GOP in 2022 and 2024
Commentary
I don’t know if Niels Bohr, Nostradamus, Samuel Goldwyn or Yoga Berra was the first to use the phrase “Predictions are difficult, particularly about the future,” or one of its many variants, but I think most of us would agree that they all have some validity.
Nevertheless, I’m going to go ahead and make a big one and, yes, it involves that other hoary proverb about it always being darkest before the dawn, since we seem to be in a very dark period, but… here goes…
The Democratic Party is headed for epochal electoral disasters in 2022 and most probably 2024. They will be trounced by a renewed GOP.
And I’m saying that even factoring in what many on the right believe with increasing justification—a lot of cheating has been going on.
Yes, it will still be there in those years, but not as much because the number of people watching is going up exponentially.
America is poised for a big reaction. And I’m not a Pollyanna… well, not completely. I’m just a one time high school physics student who remembers Newton’s third law about action and reaction.
The big winner in those coming elections will be the Trump-DeSantis party, in whatever order emerges, and among the big losers, besides the Democrats, will be the thirty-five House Republicans who voted for a Jan. 6 investigation, however few of them are left after primary season.
Due to the overwhelming majority of the media (which few pay attention to anymore), the academy (a self-immolating problem I will get into in a moment) and their own extreme leftwing, the Democrats are losing contact with the American people on a daily basis.
In their gigantic, seemingly endless, spending programs, they ignore the obvious, spoken aloud by Bill Clinton in his 1996 State of the Union and not really contradicted since: “The era of big government is over.”
But didn’t it come back with COVID? Not much apparently.
In a new Rasmussen poll voters prefer small to big government by the significant margin of 55 percent to 37 percent. They also, in a poll only a week or two before, prefer capitalism to socialism by more than three to one—65 percent to 18 percent. (Yes, Rasmussen tilts Republican but his record has historically been among the most accurate—and these aren’t close calls.)
Critical Race Theory
At the same time, the American people—white ones anyway—have been informed by leftists, people of color who believe those same white people (a significant percentage of whom came from societies where they were oppressed themselves) are oppressing them, the media, and the academy that they (read: all whites) are unremittingly racist.
Whites were, in Lady Gaga’s words, “born that way.” Only by being “anti-racist”—whatever that means; it’s constantly changing—can they possibly be reformed. And even then it’s moot.
Most whites (and a number of non-whites too, I’d wager) started by just nodding their heads or changing the subject when this idiotic nonsense came up, hoping it would go away.
It didn’t. It got worse. Now we have critical race theory to deal with, an idea so evil in its conception—so straight out of Goebbels despite its intellectual pretensions—you couldn’t devise a better way to create racism where it didn’t exist, beginning in kindergarten. Good-bye Martin Luther King and judging us all by our characters. Hello, you are your skin color.
Not to mention the sudden appearance of that old canary in the coal mine, anti-Semitism, that is now raising its wretched head in practically every Democrat-controlled big city out there, crazed Hamas supporters demanding to know the ethnic background of innocent LA sushi diners, bombs going off in the Diamond District of New York.
Reaction
Enter Newton’s third law: action begets reaction. Only in this case the reaction will dwarf the initial action. More people than you can imagine have about had it with the American left in its present incarnation and are ready to explode.
These folks used to be called the Silent Majority, but they’re suddenly becoming not so silent anymore. That those who are still have a secret ballot is just icing on the proverbial cake.
Over the last few years, many were afraid to express their opinions in public, for fear of work or social repercussions. This is diminishing—and surprisingly rapidly.
Here in Tennessee—and from reports many other states as well, almost all red states (the majority)—we are seeing an incredible amount of grass roots organizing especially against critical race theory, largely by mothers who are appalled by this evil ideology being inculcated into their children from the age of four.
People are rallying against the crypto—(well, actually not so crypto)—Marxist educational system all across the country. Do what you want, but stay away from our kids. That’s their red line, in more ways than one.
I have never seen so much of this kind of organizing on the right. The Democrats and their media friends made a critical mistake supporting CRT, just as they have made a mistake in not separating themselves from Antifa and BLM violence.
Some of them realize this—it’s so obvious; how could they not—and for this reason as well as to distract from the ongoing electoral fraud investigations in multiple states, the Democrats have put so much effort into magnifying (and investigating) Jan. 6.
But this is not stopping the electoral investigations that are going forward in those states, nor is it stopping something that will surprise you that I bring up at this late date—the John Durham-led investigation into the Trump-Russia collusion fraud.
Durham Investigation
Most had given up on it in its entirety. I had myself at times. But looked at from afar, the later (i.e., the closer to 2022) this is delivered or indictments are made the better.
Just the other day, George Papadopoulos (remember him?)—a man with a more than a passing interest in this investigation—popped up in an interview with Jordan Conradson of The Gateway Pundit (a website some thought at one point over the top in its criticisms of the Left, but that has become increasingly vindicated in its accuracy).
“George: My opinion is that Durham is very real …. I know who he has interviewed in October 2019. Specific guys with the U.S. intelligence community that should not have been meeting with me, this infamous Australian diplomat. We know he’s spoken to the Italians, to various governments. He has been working non-stop since 2019 where I think he got all the juicy info back then. Then Barr appoints some special council a month before Biden goes to the White House, and now Durham is simply, in my opinion like I said, I don’t talk to Durham, he’s waiting for the right moment to expose what he has learned and I think it is going to be tantamount to conspiracy in the Obama administration. I truly believe that. I think he is incredibly real and I would actually put my entire reputation on the line saying this …. It’s going to be very interesting to see when and how that information comes out, how the media tries to deflect or cover it up.
“Conradson: Do you have an estimate of when that information might come out?
“George: I think by this summer we’re going to have a final conclusion on Durham. [Yes, we’ve heard that one multiple times before, but still…ed.] This thing can’t last forever but I just think he’s giving Biden over 100 days to start really dropping what he has. And if he has nothing, I’m on the record of saying I put my reputation on the line regarding Durham.”
And I’m putting mine on record regarding the elections of 2022 and 2024. It’s up to those reading this to prove me right. (Don’t let me down.)
Roger L. Simon is an award-winning novelist, Oscar-nominated screenwriter, co-founder of PJMedia, and now, editor-at-large for The Epoch Times. His most recent books are “The GOAT” (fiction) and “I Know Best: How Moral Narcissism Is Destroying Our Republic, If It Hasn’t Already” (nonfiction). He can be found on Parler as @rogerlsimon
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Unsettled: What Climate Science Tells Us, What It Doesn’t, And Why It Matters, by Steven E. Koonin
Commentary
On Jan. 8, 2014, at New York University in Brooklyn, there occurred a unique event in the annals of global warming: nearly eight hours of structured debate between three climate scientists supporting the consensus on manmade global warming and three climate scientists who dispute it, moderated by a team of six leading physicists from the American Physical Society (APS) led by Dr. Steven Koonin, a theoretical physicist at New York University. The debate (pdf), hosted by the APS, revealed consensus-supporting climate scientists harboring doubts and uncertainties and admitting to holes in climate science—in marked contrast to the emphatic messaging of bodies such as Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
At one point, Koonin read an extract from the IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report released the previous year. Computer model-simulated responses to forcings—the term used by climate scientists for changes of energy flows into and out of the climate system, such as changes in solar radiation, volcanic eruptions, and changes in the concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere—“can be scaled up or down.” This scaling included greenhouse gas forcings.
Some forcings in some computer models had to be scaled down to match computer simulations to actual climate observations. But when it came to making centennial projections on which governments rely and drive climate policy, the scaling factors were removed, probably resulting in a 25 to 30 percent over-prediction of the 2100 warming.
The ensuing dialogue between Koonin and Dr. William Collins of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory—a lead author of the climate model evaluation chapter in the Fifth Assessment Report—revealed something more troubling and deliberate than holes in scientific knowledge:
Dr. Koonin: But if the model tells you that you got the response to the forcing wrong by 30 percent, you should use that same 30 percent factor when you project out a century.
Dr. Collins: Yes. And one of the reasons we are not doing that is we are not using the models as [a] statistical projection tool.
Dr. Koonin: What are you using them as?
Dr. Collins: Well, we took exactly the same models that got the forcing wrong and which got sort of the projections wrong up to 2100.
Dr. Koonin: So, why do we even show centennial-scale projections?
Dr. Collins: Well, I mean, it is part of the [IPCC] assessment process.
Koonin was uncommonly well-suited to lead the APS climate workshop. He has a deep understanding of computer models, which have become the workhorses of climate science. As a young man, Koonin wrote a paper on computer modeling of nuclear reaction in stars and taught a course on computational physics at Caltech. In the early 1990s, he was involved in a program using satellites to measure the Earth’s albedo—that is, the reflection of incoming solar radiation back into space. As a student at Caltech in the late 1960s, he was taught by Nobel physicist Richard Feynman and absorbed what Koonin calls Feynman’s “absolute intellectual honesty.”
On becoming BP’s chief scientist in 2004, Koonin became part of the wider climate change milieu. Assignments included explaining the physics of man-made global warming to Prince Philip at a dinner in Buckingham Palace. In 2009, Koonin was appointed an under-secretary at the Department of Energy in the Obama administration.
The APS climate debate was the turning point in Koonin’s thinking about climate change and consensus climate science (“The Science”). “I began by believing that we were in a race to save the planet from climate catastrophe,” Koonin writes in his new book, “Unsettled: What Climate Science Tells Us, What It Doesn’t, And Why It Matters.” “I came away from the APS workshop not only surprised, but shaken by the realization that climate science was far less mature than I had supposed.” “Unsettled” is an authoritative primer on the science of climate change that lifts the lid on The Science and finds plenty that isn’t as it should be. “As a scientist,” writes Koonin, “I felt the scientific community was letting the public down by not telling the whole truth plainly.” Koonin’s aim is to right that wrong.
Koonin’s indictment of The Science starts with its reliance on unreliable computer models. Usefully describing the earth’s climate, writes Koonin, is “one of the most challenging scientific simulation problems.” Models divide the atmosphere into pancake-shaped boxes of around 100km wide and one kilometer deep. But the upward flow of energy from tropical thunder clouds, which is more than thirty times larger than that from human influences, occurs over smaller scales than the programmed boxes. This forces climate modellers to make assumptions about what happens inside those boxes. As one modeller confesses, “it’s a real challenge to model what we don’t understand.”
Inevitably, this leaves considerable scope for modelers’ subjective views and preferences. A key question climate models are meant to solve is estimating the equilibrium climate sensitivity of carbon dioxide (ECS), which aims to tell us by how much temperatures rise from a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Yet in 2020, climate modelers from Germany’s Max Planck Institute admitted to tuning their model by targeting an ECS of about 3° Centigrade. “Talk about cooking the books,” Koonin comments.
The proof of the pudding, as they say, is in the eating. Self-evidently, computer projections can’t be tested against a future that’s yet to happen, but they can be tested against climates present and past. Climate models can’t even agree on what the current global average temperature is. “One particularly jarring feature is that the simulated average global surface temperature,” Koonin notes, “varies among models by about 3°C, three times greater than the observed value of the twentieth century warming they’re purporting to describe and explain.”
Another embarrassing feature of climate models concerns the earlier of the two twentieth-century warmings from 1910 to 1940, when human influences were much smaller. On average, models give a warming rate of about half of what was actually observed. The failure of the latest models to warm fast enough in those decades suggest that it’s possible, even likely, that internal climate variability is a significant contributor to the warming of recent decades, Koonin suggests. “That the models can’t reproduce the past is a big red flag—it erodes confidence in their projections of future climates.” Neither is it reassuring that for the years after 1960, the latest generation of climate models show a larger spread and greater uncertainty than earlier ones—implying that, far from advancing, The Science has been going backwards. That is not how science is meant to work.
The second part of Koonin’s indictment concerns the distortion, misrepresentation, and mischaracterization of climate data to support a narrative of climate catastrophism based on increasing frequency of extreme weather events. As an example, Koonin takes a “shockingly misleading” claim and associated graph in the United States government’s 2017 Climate Science Special Report that the number of high-temperature records set in the past two decades far exceeds the number of low-temperature records across the 48 contiguous states. Koonin demonstrates that the sharp uptick in highs over the last two decades is an artifact of a methodology chosen to mislead. After re-running the data, record highs show a clear peak in the 1930s, but there is no significant trend over the 120 years of observations starting in 1895, or even since 1980, when human influences on the climate grew strongly. In contrast, the number of record cold temperatures has declined over more than a century, with the trend accelerating after 1985.
Notes Koonin, “temperature extremes in the contiguous U.S. have become less common and somewhat milder since the late nineteenth century.” Similarly, a key message in the 2014 National Climate Assessment of an upward trend in hurricane frequency and intensity, repeated in the 2017 assessment, is contradicted 728 pages later by a statement buried in an appendix stating that there has been no significant trend in the global number of tropical cyclones “nor has any trend been identified in the number of U.S. land-falling hurricanes.”
That might surprise many politicians. “Over the past thirty years, the incidence of natural disasters has dramatically increased,” Treasury secretary Janet Yellen falsely asserted last month in a pitch supporting the Biden administration’s infrastructure package. “We are now in a situation where climate change is an existential risk to our future economy and way of life,” she claimed. The sacrifice of scientific truth in the form of objective empirical data for the sake of a catastrophist climate narrative is plain to see. As Koonin summarizes the case: “Even as human influences have increased fivefold since 1950 and the globe has warmed modestly, most severe weather phenomena remain within past variability. Projections of future climate and weather events rely on models demonstrably unfit for the purpose.”
Koonin also has sharp words for the policy side of the climate change consensus, which asserts that although climate change is an existential threat, solving it by totally decarbonizing society is straightforward and relatively painless. “Two decades ago, when I was in the private sector,” Koonin writes, “I learned to say that the goal of stabilizing human influences on the climate was ‘a challenge,’ while in government it was talked about as ‘an opportunity.’ Now back in academia, I can forthrightly call it ‘a practical impossibility.’”
Unlike many scientists and most politicians, Koonin displays a sure grasp of the split between developed and developing nations, for whom decarbonization is a luxury good that they can’t afford. The fissure dates back to the earliest days of the U.N. climate process at the end of the 1980s. Indeed, it’s why developing nations insisted on the U.N. route as opposed to an intergovernmental one that produced the 1987 Montreal Protocol on ozone-depleting substances. “The economic betterment of most of humanity in the coming decades will drive energy demand even more strongly than population growth,” Koonin says. “Who will pay the developing world not to emit? I have been posing that simple question to many people for more than fifteen years and have yet to hear a convincing answer.”
The most unsettling part of “Unsettled” concerns science and the role of scientists. “Science is one of the very few human activities—perhaps the only one—in which errors are systematically criticized and fairly often, in time, corrected,” Karl Popper wrote nearly six decades ago. That condition does not pertain in climate science, where errors are embedded in a political narrative and criticism is suppressed. In a recent essay, the philosopher Matthew B. Crawford observes that the pride of science as a way of generating knowledge—unlike religion—is to be falsifiable. That changes when science is pressed into duty as authority in order to absolve politicians of responsibility for justifying their policy choices (“the science says,” we’re repeatedly told). “Yet what sort of authority would it be that insists its own grasp of reality is merely provisional?” asks Crawford. “For authority to be really authoritative, it must claim an epistemic monopoly of some kind, whether of priestly or scientific knowledge.”
At the outset of “Unsettled,” Feynman’s axiom of absolute intellectual honesty is contrasted with climate scientist Stephen Schneider’s “double ethical bind.” On the one hand, scientists are ethically bound by the scientific method to tell the truth. On the other, they are human beings who want to reduce the risk of potentially disastrous climate change. “Each of us has to decide what the right balance is between being effective and being honest,” Schneider said.
“Being effective” helps explain the pressure on climate scientists to conform to The Science and the emergence of a climate science knowledge monopoly. Its function is, as Crawford puts it, the manufacture of a product—political legitimacy—which, in turn, requires that competing views be delegitimized and driven out of public discourse through enforcement of a “moratorium on the asking of questions.” This sees climate scientist gatekeepers deciding who can and cannot opine on climate science. “Please, save us from retired physicists who think they’re smarter and wiser than everyone in climate science,” tweeted Gavin Schmidt, NASA acting senior climate advisor, about Koonin and his book. “I agree with pretty much everything you wrote,” a chair of a university earth sciences department tells Koonin, “but I don’t dare say that in public.” Another scientist criticizes Koonin for giving ammunition to “the deniers,” and a third writes an op-ed urging New York University to reconsider Koonin’s position there. It goes wider than scientists. Facebook has suppressed a “Wall Street Journal” review of “Unsettled.” Likewise, “Unsettled” remains unreviewed by the “New York Times,” the “Washington Post” (though it carried an op-ed by Marc Thiessen based on an interview with Koonin) and other dailies, which would prefer to treat Koonin’s reasoned climate dissent as though it doesn’t exist.
The moratorium on the asking of questions represents the death of science as understood and described by Popper, a victim of the conflicting requirements of political utility and scientific integrity. Many scientists take this lying down. Koonin won’t. For his forensic skill and making his findings accessible to non-specialists, Koonin has written the most important book on climate science in decades.
From RealClearWire.
Rupert Darwall is a senior fellow of the RealClear Foundation and author of “Green Tyranny: Exposing the Totalitarian Roots of the Climate Industrial Complex” and the report “The Climate Noose: Business, Net Zero, and the IPCC’s Anti-Capitalism.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.China’s Fake Friend: Russia
Commentary
China’s top jet-setting-diplomat-who-flies-beneath-the-radar, Yang Jiechi, arrived in Moscow on Monday to talk security with the Kremlin. The Financial Times calls this “the latest sign of deepening ties between Beijing and Moscow.” But I call it baloney.
After 116,000 Russian COVID-19 deaths and counting, Putin should be seething beneath that thin smile. Add to that his legendary attempts to return Russia to the “greatness” of the Soviet days, in which China was a supplicant to Moscow’s power, and diplomatic errand-boy to Russian premiers at the U.N. Since the Soviet breakup in 1991, Moscow has had its own 30 years of humiliation, not least at the hands of Beijing.
Russia is desperate for foreign cash after being shut in by Western economic sanctions imposed after its 2014 invasion of Ukraine’s Crimea and Donbass regions. Things just haven’t been the same for Russia since, with economic circumstances forcing Moscow into China’s arms in what amounts to a shotgun marriage. China, perhaps on purpose, used the same “shot-gun diplomacy” with Iran, Thailand, and Myanmar (Burma). International economic ostracization of countries over human rights and military transgressions, forces the resultantly desperate countries to kowtow to Beijing for an exports lifeline.
Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin attend the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg, Russia, on June 7, 2019. (Olga Maltseva/AFP/Getty Images)
Two months after the Crimea invasion, the ostracized Putin had a $400 billion, 38bcm (billion cubic meters) annual natural gas-supply deal with Xi Jinping, but with strings attached. “The long-running price dispute that had stymied the deal for years was resolved in China’s favor, most likely bringing the price down to the levels that China enjoyed from its main Central Asian supplier, Turkmenistan,” according to a Harvard analysis. I suspect that was about a 10 percent price cut from international market rates. China “helped” Russia realize that international economic sanctions had turned the once-great country into a practically-land-locked Turkmenistan. Friends indeed.
Then came closer Sino-Russian military ties, and joint military maneuvers in 2018, all probably part of the price that Russia paid China for the privilege of trading. Trade that year was a record $100 billion. In 2019, Russia opened its network to Huawei’s 5G. Goodbye, data security.
China is stealing data from Russia with one hand, and force-feeding yuan with the other. Beijing doesn’t buy all that Russian energy with valuable U.S. dollars or euros. It buys a significant chunk with its own freely-printed yuan. This forces Russia, or Russia’s trading partners, to purchase from China in the future. Russia’s foreign reserves in yuan increased from 5 percent in 2018 to 14 percent in 2019, but down to about 12 percent at the end of 2020. That level is still exceptionally-high relative to the world’s foreign exchange reserves, which are less than 2 percent in yuan.
China is also using Russia’s economic distress to leach or steal technology from the country, including aviation, rocket, and nuclear technologies. China seeks to be a leading global exporter of these in the future, and to do so it needs to acquire the tech first, most easily through theft or secondarily, barter by giving short-term access to China’s market. In 2019, Russia’s state arms manufacturer Rostec accused China of widespread theft. “Unauthorized copying of our equipment abroad is a huge problem. There have been 500 such cases over the past 17 years,” Yevgeny Livadny, Rostec’s chief of intellectual property projects, said. “China alone has copied aircraft engines, Sukhoi planes, deck jets, air defense systems, portable air defense missiles, and analogs of the Pantsir medium-range surface-to-air systems.”
The Financial Times failed to reveal these underlying stresses in the Sino-Russian relationship. The leading British paper blithely states, in its recent article, that the announcement of the Yang Jiechi trip was made only a few days after Putin and Xi’s relationship flourished during the launch of a nuclear energy project that “entails Russia helping China to build four nuclear reactors.”
No mention of Russia’s relative poverty, and forced technology transfer, in the Financial Times. Just a detailed account of the compliments that the two leaders showered upon one another. Putin said that ties between the two countries were at “the best level in history.” Xi talked up a “comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era,” according to the FT.
The famously pink British financial paper swallowed it all, hook, line, and sinker. “The comments add to recent emphasis on closer ties in the build-up to the 20th anniversary of the signing of a treaty between the two countries aimed at bolstering cooperation,” the FT reporter gushed. “Last year, in a phone call with Putin, Xi highlighted the need for closer relations with Russia given the ‘turbulence’ caused by the pandemic and said the 2001 treaty had established [no less than] a new type of international relations, according to state media.”
The reporter’s tone is critical, even skeptical, of U.S. President Joe Biden, characterized as aggressive against China. Biden “imposed sweeping sanctions on Russia for ‘harmful foreign activities.’” Why the scare quotes? The reporter doesn’t believe that Russia committed “harmful foreign activities?” That Biden last week waived Trump-era sanctions on Russia against Nord Stream 2, a Russia-Germany gas pipeline, is omitted from the FT story. The waiver came after cyber-criminals in Russia disabled an American oil pipeline this month. Thousands of American gas stations in the south-east suffered shortages as a result.
There’s no mention in the article of critical differences between China and Russia, for example China’s attempt to economically muscle-in as a “near-arctic state,” where currently short-of-the-ready Russia has long been an internationally-recognized arctic power. As in other regions, Moscow needs Beijing’s cash, and Beijing is using that vulnerability as a foot in the door. China invested billions of dollars into Russia’s Arctic gas projects, including a fleet of ice-breaker gas tankers to be jointly operated by China’s Cosco shipping company, and Russia’s PAO Sovcomflot. As noted by Foreign Policy, “Russia and China’s Arctic partnership is not an alliance—it is driven by business. Despite mutually beneficial interests in the region, commercial realpolitik is at the heart of their engagement.”
Neither are Russian fears of losing control of its vulnerable eastern regions mentioned. Russian territory near China is sparsely populated, underdeveloped, and according to Putin in 2000, at risk of takeover by China. Dmitry Medvedev, in 2012, warned that few people live in the Russian Far East (RFE), and protecting its residents from “excessive expansion by neighboring states” remains critical, including by preventing enclaves where foreigners settle. Medvedev currently serves as Deputy Chairman of the Security Council of Russia.
Moscow seeks Chinese capital to develop its far east, but as early as 2016 it was apparent that “not only has the modernization of the RFE run aground, the tie to China is becoming an alliance where Russia depends more on China than China does on Russia,” according to Stephen Blank, a Russia expert at the American Foreign Policy Council. The Wall Street Journal notes that RFE locals call China’s influence a “Chinese invasion” (as does one Australian academic). They have protested against China-backed ventures including a Lake Baikal water bottling plant and Siberian timber logging.
(L-R) Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, and Bulgarian Premier Boyko Borisov speak during an economic forum in Budapest attended by 16 central and eastern European leaders on Nov. 27, 2017. (Attila Kisbenedek/AFP/Getty Images)
China and Russia are also in competition in Central Asia. Beijing is pushing its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) into Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan, which Moscow sees as within its own post-Soviet sphere of influence. In its new mercantilism, China wants natural resources from Central Asia, in exchange for exports of its overproduction, for example steel and concrete. China also wants to ship its exports by rail through the region, paid for by the countries themselves, but built by Chinese companies. That’s hitting three birds with one jade stone.
This is Xi Jinping’s self-serving BRI plan, and there are plenty of bribable tin-pot dictators who can help make it a reality. Billions of dollars later, China is Central Asia’s top “investor.” As elsewhere, Russia’s Crimea invasion hampered its own influence in Central Asia, and its attempt at a “Eurasian Economic Union,” with Moscow in the lead. It failed because Moscow went broke. The union was “harmonized” (read: subjugated) in 2015 to Xi’s BRI.
Now China’s state media speaks of “BRI countries” as if they were imperial possessions, even as Xi hastens to clarify that “China has no geopolitical motives, seeks no exclusionary blocs, and imposes no business deals on others.” Methinks thou dost protest too much, General Secretary.
Moscow, which has troops stationed in Tajikistan, now has to contend with China’s own troops there. Their excuse? Augmenting Tajik border security to protect against Islamic terrorists infiltrating north from Afghanistan. Where Moscow can, it sabotages Chinese influence in Central Asia, for example by inviting India and Pakistan into the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). Given the dysfunctional India-Pakistan relationship, Russia may have achieved the diplomatic version of a poison pill strategy.
Why the Financial Times portrays all this as a beautifully budding and unproblematic friendship between respected statesmen Putin and Xi, who are in reality closer to mafia kingpins planning each others’ eventual demise, is an enigma. Perhaps because it is a British financial paper, and British finance is just dying to get a bigger slice of China’s international commerce (and maybe some of Russia’s too). Kind of like Russia’s awkward kissing-up to China. Both Russian oligarchs (with Putin in the lead) and British financiers, appear to subscribe to the mantra that “flattery will get you everywhere” in the Middle Kingdom.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Greg Burton, the head of Westrock Rescue Squad, teaches local first responder volunteers how to quickly and safely extract crash victims after an accident. (Salena Zito)
This Small Town’s Sense of Community Is No Accident
Commentary
HOT SPRINGS, Virginia—Where the tidy brick sidewalks end at the edge of the business district, the carnage was jarring. Two cars had their roofs sheared off. Shattered glass was strewn everywhere. In the distance, an older van was upturned, on its roof, alongside two vehicles on their sides and another car in a ditch, completely upside down and touching the creek.
Known colloquially as Sam Snead Highway, the winding road that hugs the Allegheny Mountains and serves as the thoroughfare for this charming town is still damp from a violent evening downpour. The initial assumption is that all six vehicles met this gruesome fate after hydroplaning on the single-lane highway.
But that assumption is wrong—as good a lesson as any for never judging a book by its cover, even when the evidence is visually overwhelming.
Greg Burton is among 20 or so people who showed up to help extract these vehicles from their shattered state. Yet, he appeared to possess no sense of urgency. Dressed in gray overalls with reflective piping, a rescue patch, and a white hard hat, he was not in charge of a true accident scene. He was, rather, in charge of training rescue volunteers. They huddled in teams of five around several different life-and-death scenarios that required an appropriate perception and response from those first on the scene.
“So, I’m an instructor for this class that trains local volunteer firefighters and emergency first-responders,” Burton said. “But I’m a volunteer as well.”
Burton, from nearby Covington, is part of the Westrock Rescue Squad based inside the massive paper mill where he works. Burton said they were simulating different kinds of car crashes that the volunteers might happen upon at any given time.
“So, these two cars here, we simulated an accident of a car is on its wheels like you see it, but we had to take the doors off,” he said. “We call this vehicle extrication, so if somebody’s trapped inside of a car, we teach them different things they might have to do to get them out of the car. So, we did basically the same maneuvers with the cars on their side and the cars that are completely rolled over and teach them what they are going to do to secure it and get patients out of it.”
Everyone at the class will be one of those first on the scene when duty calls.
The sense of community is evident everywhere in this small tourist town of fewer than 4,500 people.
Seth Ellis is normally behind the counter of Bacova Beer Company, the distillery he opened a couple of years ago. He quickly joined the local chamber of commerce and then decided to add a restaurant. It opened last year during the height of the pandemic in one of the most restrictive states in the country.
Ellis smiled and shrugged at the timing and explained that he did beer runs locally and regionally, traveling as far away as Charlottesville to stay afloat. He and his wife settled here years ago when she took a job with the forest service. He is from Alabama, and she is from Ohio. “But this community is home,” he said. “I love the sense of everyone having each other’s back.”
Miguel Rosado came to Hot Springs from Puerto Rico five years ago and brought his family with him. “Things were not good there, and I wanted a better life and opportunities for my family,” he told me. Rosado said he took a job with the Homestead resort, and within a year, he had his own home and had put down roots. During an impromptu tour of the hotel’s William McKinley presidential suite, he spied an ancient map of the island he once called home hanging on the wall, a tribute to the peace treaty McKinley signed with the Spanish government, which ceded Puerto Rico to the United States in 1898.
Pointing to a town on the map across the bay from San Juan, Rosado said, “This is where I am from.”
With her chestnut hair pulled up in a ponytail, Debbie Young was overseeing the volunteers, who she said respond to approximately 350 calls a year. “The incidents range from heart attacks on the trails or at the hotel to tourists not quite knowing how to navigate the steep and winding roads,” she said.
The age range of the volunteers spans from 24 to 60, Young said. Many are legacy volunteers whose fathers’ fathers’ fathers did the same thing for their community in their own time.
Many assumptions about small-town America are disproven over the course of the afternoon. Hot Springs is filled with stories about aspiration, respect, and hope, told by people with genuine diversity of color, roots, and background who call this place home.
Theirs is a way of life that can be found in all of the towns nestled in the nooks and crannies of America, something few people experience, instead of flying overhead or zipping by on an interstate.
A passing motorist might assume that the grisly scene apparently unfolding on the old “valley road” is genuine. If you don’t stop and listen to people with lives very different from your own, you might never really know the rest of the story.
Salena Zito has held a long, successful career as a national political reporter. Since 1992, she has interviewed every U.S. president and vice president, as well as top leaders in Washington, D.C., including secretaries of state, speakers of the House and U.S. Central Command generals. Her passion, though, is interviewing thousands of people across the country. She reaches the Everyman and Everywoman through the lost art of shoe-leather journalism, having traveled along the back roads of 49 states.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The Middle East Dispute Is About Religion, Not Land
Commentary
If you’ve seen videos of recent attacks on Jews in New York City, Los Angeles, London, and elsewhere, you may have missed a very revealing aspect of those attacks. They were almost always—as they have been for decades—accompanied by curses such as, “F— the Jews.”
Now, given that the perpetrators are almost always Muslims—whether immigrants or children of immigrants from an Arab or other Muslim country—two questions present themselves:
Why attack American or French or British Jews? And why curse “the Jews”? In other words, given that the recent wars have been between Hamas and Israel, why aren’t these attacks outside of Israel on Israelis and Israeli institutions? And why level curses at “the Jews”?
The answer is this: The Muslims who seek Israel’s destruction do so because Israel is Jewish, not because Israel occupies the West Bank or Gaza.
First, the Muslim world sought Israel’s destruction from the day Israel was established in May 1948, before it occupied a centimeter of the West Bank or Gaza.
Second, Israel does not occupy Gaza. Israel withdrew completely from Gaza 16 years ago.
Third, the Palestinians rejected a state of their own five times:
Rejection No. 1: In 1937, the British Peel Commission offered the Arabs 80 percent of the geographical area known as Palestine. The Jews were offered 20 percent. The Arabs rejected it.
Rejection No. 2: In 1947, the Arabs rejected the United Nations partition plan.
Rejection No. 3: In 1967, in the course of defeating the attempt by Egypt, Syria and Jordan to destroy Israel, Israel conquered the West Bank from Jordan, Gaza from Egypt and the Golan Heights from Syria. Most Israelis had no interest in retaining Gaza or almost any part of the West Bank except for East Jerusalem, the Jewish city in which Jews have lived for 3,000 years, from 1,400 years before Muhammad was born. The Palestinians, as the Arabs of Palestine came to be known, and all the Arab states rejected partition and peace.
Rejection No. 4: In 2000, at Camp David, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak offered Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat a Palestinian state in all of Gaza and 94 percent of the West Bank with East Jerusalem as its capital. But Arafat rejected the offer. In the words of U.S. President Bill Clinton, Arafat was “here 14 days and said no to everything.”
Rejection No. 5: In 2008, Israel tried again. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert went even further than Ehud Barak had, expanding the peace offer to include additional land to sweeten the deal. The Palestinians said no, again.
The reason for all these Palestinian/Arab rejections of a state of their own was that it meant a Jewish state in the Middle East still existed.
The Middle East dispute has never been about land. Israel is the size of New Jersey. It is slightly larger than El Salvador. If it were the size of Manhattan, the Palestinians and many Muslim states would still seek its destruction. There are 22 Arab states in the Middle East, but there is no room for one Jewish state. There is even a state with a Palestinian majority: Jordan. The issue is not land. The issue is religion.
Why is Iran wholly preoccupied with destroying Israel? It has nothing to do with Muslim solidarity; the Iranians don’t give a damn about Palestinians. It is entirely about hatred of Jews and the Jewish state. If the Iranians cared about fellow Muslims, they would be targeting China, which is accused by the United States and other Western countries of committing genocide against the Uyghurs—a predominately Muslim ethnic group that lives in China—a charge that includes forced sterilization of Uyghur women.
Westerners want to believe it is about land—in part because they are secular and think in secular terms. And in part because they need to believe that the dispute is about land. Only then can they blame Israel. If it were about a Muslim desire to destroy the Jewish state, they could no longer blame Israel. Even worse: They would have to blame Islamist fanaticism.
Dennis Prager is a nationally syndicated radio talk-show host and columnist.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Biden’s ‘Gas Tax’ Is a Pain at the Pump
Commentary
One of my early memories, and not a happy one, is sitting in gas lines in the 1970s. My parents would rustle me out of bed early on frigid February mornings, and we’d pack into the Ford and speed over to the gas station.
When we got there, there would often be six or seven cars in front of us. Sometimes, we’d wait 20 or 30 minutes for a fill-up. And we’d notice that every few weeks, there would be someone on a ladder posting a higher price on the 20-foot-high sign. It always sticks in my memory because even though I was only about 12 years old, it was a shocking indicator that something terribly wrong was going on in our country. I couldn’t understand how a bunch of Saudi oil sheikhs could hijack the greatest nation on earth.
Fast-forward four decades, and for the first time in my life, we had a president, Donald Trump, who made America energy-independent again. In the last week of December 2020, the United States imported zero oil from Saudi Arabia. Hooray!
In the wake of the cyberattack on Colonial Pipeline, one of our major domestic energy pipelines, the 1970s malaise was brought back into focus. In many parts of the Southeast, there was no gas to be had at any price because of the supply disruptions. Alas, this wasn’t just a result of some evil foreign hackers. This is the predictable outcome when we have a president who teams with the radical green left and declares war on American energy.
President Joe Biden has said that he wants to eliminate American fossil fuels over the next 15 years. He’s doing his best to keep that promise, starting with his cancellation of the Keystone XL pipeline. (How deranged does that seem today?) A few weeks later, he stopped oil and gas drilling on federal lands. We have some $30 trillion to $50 trillion of energy resources underneath federal lands and federal waters.
This “America last” energy policy isn’t just a frontal assault on our economy, transportation system, and national security. It’s a policy that imposes a hefty tax on the poorest people. According to AAA, when Biden was elected, the average gasoline price across America was $2.20 a gallon. Since then, the price has risen every month, and on May 15 of this year, the average gas price hit $3.04.
Make no mistake: this 84-cent-per-gallon price hike is a highly regressive “tax” on motorists, just as lower gas prices during the Trump administration were the equivalent of a tax cut for consumers. I doubt that billionaire Democratic donors such as Mike Bloomberg, Tom Steyer, or Bill and Melinda Gates, who are significant financial supporters of the war on fossil fuels, care much that gas prices are rising.
But for the rest of us, when the price of a fill-up rises by $10 or $12, that’s a genuine financial hardship. That’s especially true for those on fixed incomes or earning less than $50,000 a year. Yes, indeed, gas prices are often out of the direct control of the president. Biden didn’t cause the Colonial Pipeline sabotage. But if you want people to stop using oil and gas, what better way to achieve that than by making it much more expensive to buy? What did the White House brainiacs think would happen to gas prices if we stop building pipelines, erect new Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to kill oil and gas exploration from Texas up to North Dakota, and outlaw drilling in many areas of the country?
Biden seems oblivious to all this pain as he visits electric car plants and gleefully test-drives these new vehicles. That’s fine. But even if every car bought starting tomorrow was battery-operated, and even if people could afford the $50,000-plus price tag, we’d still need gas for vehicles already on the road for at least the next 20 years. Where are we going to get it? The Saudis?
Meanwhile, the poorest people are now paying his green tax at the gas pump. Most amazingly, Biden still has a straight face while saying that no one with an income of less than $400,000 a year will pay higher taxes under his economic plan.
Come on, Joe. Get out of the Washington bubble, and go to a gas station. People of all incomes are paying your gas “tax.”
Stephen Moore is an economics journalist, author, and columnist. The latest of many books he co-authored is “Trumponomics: Inside the America First Plan to Revive Our Economy.” Currently, Moore is also the chief economist for the Institute for Economic Freedom and Opportunity.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Donnie Claycomb, 27, of Limestone, West Virginia., who has been mining for 6 years, stands in front of an American flag prior to an event with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt at the Harvey Mine in Sycamore, Pennsylvania, on April 13, 2017. (Justin Merriman/Getty Images)
Climate Change and the Energy Transition Demand a US Mining Revolution
Commentary
“Today, the data shows a looming mismatch between the world’s strengthened climate ambitions and the availability of critical minerals that are essential to realizing those ambitions,” says Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency (IEA).
Yet, the United States and the world are in the midst of a great “energy transition” to fight climate change—one intended as a complete transformation of our energy sector, from production to transportation to utilization. We are told that this journey will help us move away from oil, coal, and natural gas to a world dominated by windmills, solar panels, and electric cars.
This will surely be a herculean challenge: oil, coal, and gas meet over 80 percent of America’s current energy needs, while wind and solar supply just 4 percent. The United States has over 270 million cars that run on oil; it has just 2 million that use electricity.
The hard truth: an energy system powered by these “green” technologies differs enormously from one fueled by traditional hydrocarbon resources. It goes routinely unmentioned, for instance, that the energy transition will require an immense mining revolution for the raw materials needed to manufacture green-energy technologies.
Renewables and electric cars are far more mineral-intensive than their conventional counterparts—so much so that many green-energy advocates have been forced to contradict their own positions because they opposed large-scale mining and mineral extraction.
The IEA’s new report, “The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions” (pdf), explains all this quite clearly. The IEA notes that a typical electric car requires six times the mineral inputs of a conventional car, and an onshore wind plant requires nine times more mineral resources than a natural gas-fired power plant. Demand for a long list of minerals is already starting to surge as clean-energy transitions gain momentum.
The types of minerals required vary by technology. In terms of improving performance, longevity, and energy density, lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and graphite are key to the batteries used in electric cars and the backup-storage systems needed to compensate for the natural intermittency of wind and solar power. The 17 listed rare-earth elements are integral for permanent magnets used in wind turbines and electric car motors. More quietly but just as importantly, these critical materials are also ingrained in the technologies that enable the U.S. national security apparatus.
Since 2010, the average amount of minerals needed for a new unit of power generation capacity has increased by 50 percent—and that’s just to bring wind and solar to a 10 percent share of the world’s electricity (and 4 percent of all energy).
The changes needed for the world to meet net-zero carbon by 2050 are simply staggering. Per the IEA:
By 2030, the world must add more than 1,000 gigawatts of wind and solar power capacity annually—only slightly less than the entire electric power system in the United States uses today.
Electric passenger cars must reach 60 percent of new sales by 2030, while half of heavy trucks purchased by 2035 must be electrical.
Indeed, a global energy transition like the one President Joe Biden insists upon will send the need for critical materials skyrocketing by 2040:
Lithium: +4,200 percent
Graphite: +2,500 percent
Nickel: +1,900 percent
Rare-earths: +700 percent
The United States is setting itself up for major geopolitical risk: according to the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, China provides more than 85 percent of the world’s rare-earths and holds 67 percent of the global supply of scarce metals and minerals. The United States itself imports some 80 percent of its rare-earths from China.
China also controls the supply chains, utilizing its widening Belt and Road Initiative that now encompasses 45 countries (more aptly termed “partners”). We have already seen the devastation that such Chinese supply dominance can bring. If we don’t start thinking more strategically, we are on a path toward cartel dependence. Given the urgency of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, this is a possibility that we simply cannot afford.
America’s energy transition must therefore center on a domestic mining revolution.
Since 2008, the shale revolution has demonstrated how quickly we can transform energy markets through advanced technologies. As RealClear showed in October, expanding our mining capabilities enjoys bipartisan support. The United States has far more stringent environmental regulations and standards for ethically responsible mining than our competitors. Congo, for example, the world’s main supplier of the cobalt critical for electric cars, uses child labor. China uses forced labor for the production of solar panels.
Thus, a U.S. mining and manufacturing revolution for renewables and electric cars should be strongly promoted by private firms like BlackRock, and by foundations and NGOs that claim to care so much about environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) (pdf).
Biden has linked his American Jobs Plan to green energy, but his vision won’t materialize without the necessary raw materials. It has been projected that the United States has access to $6 trillion–$7 trillion in mineral resources, but we need a more streamlined permitting process.
For example, large lithium resources have been identified in Arkansas, California, Nevada, North Carolina, and Utah. The IEA wants the United States to start massive domestic development now: today’s mineral supply and investment plans fall far short of what’s needed to transform the energy sector, raising the risk of delayed or more expensive energy transitions. Higher costs will erode public support. Renewables are already confronting input issues from various angles.
Extracting the raw materials and manufacturing the technologies here at home must become a non-negotiable pillar of America’s energy and climate goals. It is a project that deserves the support of both Democrats and Republicans.
From RealClearWire.
Jude Clemente is the editor at RealClearEnergy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Time for a Post-Mortem on the Harms of Lockdowns
Commentary
It seems the “shut up and mask” wall is finally crumbling on COVID. The usual suspects still say you need to cover up and quarantine outdoors after getting vaccinated. But it’s becoming reputable to ask questions that, frankly, ought to have been asked long ago.
For instance, a long and worrying discussion in the May 20 National Post newspaper about the very direct health costs of the lockdown. Here I don’t mean of inactivity, extra eating, drinking, and above all isolation. I mean direct as in postponed surgeries. The Post quoted one Toronto “interventional cardiologist” (which if you find out what it is, you clearly have a problem requiring urgent attention) that he had “lost a lot of patients on the wait list.”
If the lockdowns were entirely necessary to prevent mass COVID fatalities, it might be legitimate to put those excess deaths in the COVID column. But if we overreacted, including cancelling other surgeries on the theory that only COVID mattered, they go into the “lockdown” column.
Which only exists if you admit there were tradeoffs, that by preventing a lot of things that would normally happen the lockdowns had real costs as well as benefits. For a long time that suggestion got you shouted down. But a rational person would try to weigh such costs to determine what policy makes sense… in real time. According to the Post, “soon-to-be-published data indicates that twice as many Ontarians with heart ailments died waiting for surgery during the pandemic than before COVID-19 hit.” So the fear that there would be triage among COVID patients, which didn’t happen, conceals that there was in cardiac care.
Obviously, heart surgery is a particularly non-elective kind of “elective” treatment. But the Post called it “just one facet of an often-overlooked side effect of the pandemic: the logjam across the country of hundreds of thousands of surgeries that grew as hospitals freed up space for COVID sufferers.” Which extend from quality-of-life matters like eye or hip surgery to question-of-life ones like cancer.
The Post comment that “Clearing the backlog is expected to cost billions, take years and keep operating rooms open evenings and weekends” has an “If I could walk like that” quality. If the authorities could fix surgical backlogs by spending billions and working more, they would have long before COVID. In fact, this form of rationing is a feature, not a bug, in Canadian health care. But one crisis at a time.
Why were these direct health costs so “often-overlooked,” with the data only being released “soon”? Here I come back to the whole “get-with-the-program” issue that has bedevilled us since last March. We’ve been told not to question lockdowns or masking, or discuss alternative treatments, who’s really at risk, or where the plague started. And by and large we did not.
Too many journalists became cheerleaders for governments. And too many legislatures rolled over, or up, as pundits pressured, activists bullied, experts said, and politicians snarled about following the science even while flopping the flip of their flabadap from borders to spacing vaccination doses to opening, closing, banning golf, and padlocking playgrounds.
In a society with the rule of law, it is not bad that people obeyed the law even while questioning its wisdom. But it is bad that questioning its wisdom was censured, even cancelled. We have acquired bad mental habits and they served us ill in the pandemic. And I think the consequences include further erosion of public trust including, in Ontario, widespread disregard of the latest lockdown.
Some people may be readying the brickbats over masks, let alone alternative treatments. But wearing what amounts to a T-shirt on your face does little to prevent you getting, or giving, a disease. Had people breathed through scarves to fight the Black Death we would mock their superstition. As for alternative measures, some doubtless were as idiotic as they sounded. But others, like vitamin D in particular, deserved clinical attention.
Now that only diehards are saying get vaccinated then stay home wearing six masks, I very much hope we will revisit a number of such questions. Not to scape goats; by and large revenge is a dish best served not. But to examine what we did right, and how we went wrong when we did. And we will find that the lockdowns did a lot of harm, from postponed surgery through inactivity to bankruptcy and isolation, and that the evidence was there long before we finally dared look at it.
When we do the post-mortem, figurative or literal, I think we will conclude that opting for panicky, state-coerced unanimity that forbade us to consider alternatives was exactly as bad a plan as it sounded this time, and always has been through history. If so, let’s remember it for the next crisis, medical or otherwise.
John Robson is a documentary filmmaker, National Post columnist, contributing editor to the Dorchester Review, and executive director of the Climate Discussion Nexus. His most recent documentary is “The Environment: A True Story.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The Jewish Lobby Versus the Israel Lobby
Commentary
“Why is the Israel lobby attacking Ilhan Omar?” and other Americans who are critical of Israel’s conduct in the recent Israel–Gaza war, asked The Week.
Talk of the Israel lobby resurrects accusations that Jewish organizations in the United States are acting against the best interests of the United States. The Israel lobby, as defined in an explosive 2007 book, “The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy,” is made up of a uniquely powerful “loose coalition of individuals and organizations who actively work to steer U.S. foreign policy in a pro-Israel direction.”
The Israel lobby certainly is powerful, as Rep. Omar (D-Minn.), Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), and Israel’s many other current critics correctly claim. It includes not only Jewish NGOs such as AIPAC, the Anti-Defamation League, and Zionist Organization of America but also Jewish billionaires such as Michael Bloomberg and Miriam Adelson, and a long list of prominent Jewish individuals such as Alan Dershowitz, who has written numerous books on Israel’s legitimacy, Dennis Prager, whose PragerU videos have amassed 5 billion views, and journalist Ben Shapiro of The Daily Wire, one of America’s largest conservative news sites.
But contrary to the 2007 book’s assertion that “the bulk of the lobby is comprised of Jewish Americans,” Jews don’t represent the bulk of this lobby.
Non-Jew Ted Cruz, the Texas senator who led the recent effort in the U.S. Senate to muster support for Israel, and non-Jew Ron DeSantis of Florida, who dubs himself the “most pro-Israel governor” in America, are among the majority of non-Jewish Republican lawmakers—almost 90 percent among senators—who champion Israel as an indispensable ally of America. Republican Jews are all but invisible among the 535 members of the U.S. Congress, which has but two Jewish Republican members in the House of Representatives and no Jewish Republican senators. The Israel lobby also includes the politically powerful Christian evangelicals, 75 percent of whom champion Israel.
The small number of Jews in the United States—they account for about 2 percent of the population—don’t dominate the pro-Israel lobby. Non-Jews do.
In contrast, Jewish Americans do dominate the anti-Israel lobby. Human Rights Watch, one of the world’s largest human rights organizations, has long had Israel in its cross-hairs, most recently in a report that concludes Israel’s actions against Palestinians “are so severe that they amount to the crimes against humanity of apartheid and persecution.” Human Rights Watch is led by a Jew, Kenneth Roth.
NGOs J Street, led by Jeremy Ben-Ami, a Jew, and Americans for Peace Now, led by Hadar Susskind, a Jew, are go-to groups for anti-Israel Democrats. Mondoweiss, the leading news blog dedicated to Israeli–Palestinian issues, and considered by many to be antisemitic, was founded by and edited by a Jew, Philip Weiss. Noam Chomsky, the Jewish MIT professor known as “the father of modern linguistics,” has arguably been Israel’s fiercest critic over the decades, so much so that Israel in 2010 banned his entry.
Jews are also major funders of the anti-Israel lobby. Foundations controlled by George Soros, a Jew, donated $100 million to Human Rights Watch and tens of millions more to a raft of other anti-Israel organizations (pdf). The Sanger Family Foundation, run by Deborah Sanger, a Jew, was the early backer of J Street. The Unz Foundation, headed by Ron Unz, a Jew, has funded high-profile critics of Jews and of Israel. The Foundation for Middle East Peace, a funder of anti-Israel advocacy, is run by a Jew, Lara Friedman. Jewish-run organizations also fund anti-Israel, pro-Palestinian politicians such as Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Omar, Ocasio-Cortez, and Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.).
In Congress, no Jews in the Democratic leadership condemned their colleagues’ demonization of Israel as it defended itself against Gaza’s launch of 4,000 missiles against Israeli civilians, even though the U.S. government itself designates Gaza a terrorist state. Rather a Jew, Bernie Sanders, led the condemnation of Israel in the U.S. Senate.
The mainstream media—often characterized as controlled by Jews in the Israel lobby—is anything but. Pro-Israel coverage can reliably be found on Fox News, where non-Jewish anchors such as Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Tucker Carlson, and Shannon Bream are employed by the non-Jewish Murdoch family. And at the Wall Street Journal, which is also Murdoch-owned, and where non-Jewish Paul Gigot is editor of the editorial pages.
In contrast, none of the major Jewish-owned or Jewish-run media organizations can be considered pro-Israel: CNN (run by Jeff Zucker, its Jewish president), ABC (owned by Walt Disney, which is run by Bob Iger, a Jew), ViacomCBS (chaired by Shari Redstone, its controlling shareholder and a Jew), and NBC and MSNBC (owned by Brian Roberts, a Jew, through its parent, Comcast).
The New York Times, which is owned by the Jewish Sulzberger family and which in many ways sets the tone for the rest of the media world, cast Israel as the villain in its war with Gaza and has in its stable Peter Beinart, a Jew who advocates the end of Israel as a Jewish state, and Thomas Friedman, a Jew who characterized Congressional support for Netanyahu as “bought and paid for by the Israel lobby.”
The United States has a very influential Jewish lobby that confronts a very influential Israel lobby. Conflating these two adversarial groups leads to confusion of the type The Week exemplified when it asked why Omar came in for criticism. There’s no need for confusion.
Anti-Israel Democrats side with the Jewish lobby, which endorses Omar’s belief that Israel committed “an act of terrorism” when airstrikes to take out Gaza’s missile launchers inadvertently killed civilians.
Republicans, and independents, too, according to a Morning Consult Poll, side with the overwhelmingly non-Jewish Israel lobby.
Lawrence Solomon is a columnist, an author, and the policy director of Toronto-based Probe International. @LSolomonTweets LawrenceSolomon@nextcity.com.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.The Long March 5B rocket, which carries China's Tianhe space station core module, lifts off from the Wenchang Space Launch Center, in southern China's Hainan province on April 29, 2021. (STR/AFP via Getty Images)
Uncontrolled Chinese Rockets May Also Target the Moon
Commentary
China apparently plans to cause recurrent waves of panic by launching uncontrolled rockets that threaten people on Earth, and soon, also on the Moon.
At first, Chinese space officials thought that the country’s 20-ton Long March-5 booster stage would impact in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea on May 9, causing concern in Israel, but it instead crashed in the Indian Ocean. The Pentagon was asked if it had plans to shoot it down.
At least three more Long March-5 space launch vehicles (SLVs) will be used to complete China’s space station, another three will be needed to launch planned probes to the Moon.
There is also the prospect that China will subject future inhabitants of the Moon to the same potentially deadly drama. In both cases, it may be the lack of power or launch capacity of China’s SLVs that requires compromises that put others in danger.
China’s Long March-5 SLV can only lift about 25 tons to Low Earth Orbit (LEO), and the Tianhe space station module launched on April 29 weighed about 22 tons. It did not use a second stage to achieve orbital velocity so the large first stage had to perform this mission, but it was not equipped for controlled deorbit, meaning its descent could endanger people on Earth.
Between 2025 and 2030, China is expected to use its new “921 Rocket” which reportedly can put 27 tons into Trans-Lunar Injection (TLI), or transport to the Moon.
As China’s next-generation manned spaceship configured for lunar missions weighs about 21 tons, this means that China will require two 921 Rockets to send the manned spaceship and the manned Moon lander to rendezvous in lunar orbit.
At a major space conference in 2018, and more clearly at another in September 2020, Chinese military-space officials revealed some configurations for a manned Moon lander, an initial Moon shelter, and a large manned Moon rover that can also serve as a shelter.
While these may not be final designs, they seem to share a characteristic derived from the former Soviet Union’s aborted manned Moon program. As the Soviet’s large N-1 SLV could only put 23 tons into TLI, and it had to carry both the manned spaceship and Moon lander, the latter had to be lightweight.
One solution was to devise a special rocket stage called Block D that would decelerate and descend its 5.5 to 6.5 ton LK (Lunniy Korabyl, Lunar Craft) manned Moon lander to about 2.4 miles (4 kilometers) above the Moon. At that point, the Block D would detach from the LK and crash into the Moon.
The expendable Block D did not require the additional weight of landing legs. By comparison, the contemporary U.S. Apollo program Lunar Excursion Module (LEM) weighed 15 tons, but its descent stage made a controlled landing on the Moon.
The LK’s internal Block E engine complex would complete the landing and later return one Cosmonaut to a spaceship orbiting the Moon. China is reported to have purchased the designs for the Block E engines from their Ukrainian designers. It is likely they also gave China insights into the integral Block D engine complex.
We can infer this possibility because the Chinese manned lunar lander, shelter, and rover concepts revealed to date also employ a detachable stage just like Block D, apparently also designed to crash into the Moon.
But by the 2030s, the Moon could become a crowded place, with the United States and its Artemis Moon program partners likely building multiple Moon Bases. Based on revealed Chinese estimates, China may build up to 10 Moon bases that it will require 60 of its super heavy-lift Long March-9 SLVs between 2030 and 2035.
Furthermore, early Moon exploration and Moon Base building for the United States and China will be concentrated at the South Pole of the Moon, where there are higher concentrations of lunar ice water. This means that U.S. and Chinese Moon bases may sometimes be in close proximity.
While China’s Long March-9 super heavy SLV could put up to 50 tons into TLI, meaning larger and safer Moon lander designs could be accommodated, there remains the possibility that China could also require scores of 921 Rockets using Block D-like decent stages to build an early presence at choice South Pole lunar locations.
So, in addition to having to endure added drama from the potential danger of more Long March-5 SLV booster stages hitting populated areas of the Earth, early Moon explorers may also have to endure the danger of Chinese “Block D” descent engines impacting near or on their Moon Bases.
A Chinese refusal to modify its Long March-5 SLVs for controlled and safer descents to Earth would not bode well for a willingness to similarly modify their “Block D” Moon descent stages.
Without such modifications, it would be logical for U.S. space planners to consider both passive and active defenses for Moon Bases, like lunar laser weapons. This would violate current treaties and conventions against “militarizing” the Moon, but the alternative would be to subject U.S. government, and allied and private sector Moon personnel to the danger of Chinese “Block-D bombs.”
China, however, may desire this outcome, as it would justify the militarization of their Moon Bases already controlled by its People’s Liberation Army, making them ready to assert Chinese claims to Moon territory and wage battles for eventual control of the Moon.
Richard D. Fisher Jr. is a senior fellow and policy analyst with the International Assessment and Strategy Center.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping exchange documents during a signing ceremony following their talks at the Kremlin in Moscow on June 5, 2019. (Alexander Zemlianichenko/AFP/Getty Images)
The Dual Faces of Sino-Russian Relations
Commentary
Two recent events reveal the duality of the relationship between China and Russia.
Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin witnessed the groundbreaking ceremony of the biggest nuclear energy cooperation project between the two countries via video conferencing on May 19. Putin claimed that current Sino-Russian relations are at their best, while Xi said that the two countries will advance bilateral relations at a higher, broader, and deeper level. This event shows one face that the West is very worried about—China and Russia could be forming an alliance.
However, earlier on May 3, the Russian Great Fatherland Party, in an open letter, accused the Russian Communist Party and its top officials of receiving money and other favors from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and serving as its agents in Russia. Some analysts believe that Russian political parties often smear each other, but rarely play the China card to attack their opponents. This incident reveals the other face of the Sino-Russian relations—Russia’s great suspicion of the CCP and the deep contradictions behind its China policy.
In fact, since the end of the Cold War, the two faces of the Sino-Russian relations have often flipped over or become intertwined. Over the years, the world seems to have been more attracted to the face showing that China and Russia are allies.
For example, since June 5, 2019, Chinese state-run media Xinhua reported that when bilateral relations were upgraded to “a comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era,” especially since the pandemic breakout in 2020, China and the United States have started a new cold war, while Russia’s relations with the United States and Europe deteriorated, prompting China and Russia to work closely together.
There are other incidents that indicate that China and Russia are strengthening diplomatic ties. For example, on Oct. 22, 2020, in response to a question from the media at the Valdai Discussion Club, Putin said that the lack of a military alliance between Russia and China at the moment was not related to the attitude of the two sides, but rather to the lack of necessity. Nonetheless, such an alliance would not be ruled out in the future.
Putin’s response was rich in meaning. In February this year, for example, the Russian and Chinese foreign ministers said during a phone conversation that the strategic cooperation between the two sides is comprehensive.
Within both countries, there are voices for an alliance. Russian senior researcher Vasily Kashin wrote that Russia and China should form a military alliance immediately when there is a risk of military conflict with the United States. Since Russian companies are involved in the development of the CCP’s ballistic missile warning system, Russia and China are well-positioned to build a global missile defense network by sharing data and establishing their own partnership.
On the Chinese side, Wang Haiyun, who had been the representative of the CCP’s armed forces in the Soviet Union and Russia for nearly 10 years, also wrote (pdf) that it is necessary to upgrade the relationship between the two countries to a “near-alliance relationship”—one of “shoulder to shoulder, back to back, hand in hand, heart to heart” with a “special friendly military relationship. … Both China and Russia should be bolder and faster” in deepening military ties, he wrote.
In fact, although Russia and China insist that both sides adhere to the principle of no alliance, no confrontation, and no targeting of any third countries, Moscow and Beijing are already at least “near-allies,” according to Xinhua.
Let’s take a look at just a few examples.
Russia and China hold regular military exercises, with very close military-technical cooperation, including the exchange of military technology between the two sides. It’s noteworthy that Russia has been helping China build a missile warning system. Also, in late July 2019 and on Dec. 22, 2020, Russia and China held two strategic joint air patrols, extending their activities from the Sea of Japan to the East China Sea—this was heavily publicized by state-run media in both countries.
A Chinese H-6 bomber flies over the East China Sea in this handout picture taken by Japan Air Self-Defense Force and released by the Joint Staff Office of the Defense Ministry of Japan on July 23, 2019. (Joint Staff Office of the Defense Ministry of Japan/HANDOUT via Reuters)
Since 2018, bilateral trade between Russia and China has stayed at about $100 billion, with a new goal of $200 billion set to be achieved by 2024, according to a report by CSIS (Center for Strategic and International Studies). China has been Russia’s largest trading partner for many years, and its percentage share in Russia’s total trade volume has increased from 8.12 percent in 2013 to 15.76 percent in 2018, according to Chinese research consulting firm Qianzhan.
As the economic cooperation between China and Russia strengthens, there are three issues that should be examined.
First, the local currency settlement of Russian-Chinese trade reached 25 percent in 2020, while in 2013 and 2014, it was insignificant, merely at about 2 to 3 percent—this is the so-called “de-dollarization,” according to Chinese news portal Sina.
Second, Russian agricultural exports to China increased significantly in 2020, making agricultural trade a new bright spot of the bilateral economic and trade cooperation, which, in turn, consolidates China’s position as the top export destination for Russian agricultural products. That has extraordinary significance when considering the potential food shortage in China and the strained relations between the CCP and the world’s major food exporters, such as the United States, Australia, and Canada.
Third, the significance of the Sino-Russian energy cooperation—Xi calls it the most weighty, fruitful, and wide-ranging project between the two countries. For example, the Sino-Russian Eastern Gas Project, also known as Power of Siberia, was officially brought into operation in December 2019, with an export capacity of 38 billion cubic meters per year, equivalent to more than 30 percent of China’s natural gas imports in 2018. Meanwhile, Russia has already begun its preparation work on the Sino-Russian Western Gas Pipeline Project, Power of Siberia 2.
However, such a “strategic partnership” highly touted by the Chinese and Russian authorities cannot conceal or cover up the dirty and conflicting nature of the bilateral relations.
Here is just one example. On Feb. 25 of this year, a local resident named Vladimir Vasiliev was charged in an espionage case for collecting intelligence for China’s spy agency, and was sentenced to eight years in prison for treason by a court in Russia’s Zabaykalsky Krai in Chita. The case was different from most espionage ones—it had nothing to do with the field of science and technology, but it took place in the border area of military significance. Russia had deliberately kept the case under low profile.
So, despite the increasingly closer relationship between Russia and China, why is it that both countries plot against each other and espionage activities have become more frequent?
In fact, in terms of foreign relations, Russia has been taking a highly defensive approach to contain and counter the CCP’s growing influence, particularly disturbing the Chinese regime.
For example, Russia exported a large number of advanced weapons to India following the border conflict between India and China in 2020. Russia and India have been working to forge a new military-technical cooperation program for the next 10 years. In addition, Russia has been helping India build fifth-generation aircraft and submarines and develop highland tanks, and so on, all of which are intended to contain the CCP.
As another example, with Central Asia seen as Russia’s backyard, Russia has to counter the expansion of China’s influence there. This year, the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan has drawn more attention to the security issues in that region, and the CCP has used the newly established “5+1” mechanism to increase interaction with Central Asian countries.
On May 12, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with his counterparts of five Central Asian countries in Xi’an to “strengthen strategic mutual trust” and “advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation,” according to a press release by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On May 14, Russia’s pro-government media fiercely criticized Beijing for interfering in the internal affairs of Central Asian countries, according to a report by Voice of America (VOA). The CCP has contributed to rampant corruption in Central Asia by paying large bribes to powerful local officials, the report said. In fact, as anti-CCP sentiment in some Central Asian countries grows, Kazakhstan passed a new law on May 13 that officially bans the sale and lease of agricultural land to foreigners.
It’s no secret that there has been a tug-of-war between Russia and China over Central Asia in the past few years.
Chinese tanks parade not far from the borders of China and Mongolia in Siberia, on Sept. 13, 2018. (MLADEN ANTONOV/AFP/Getty Images)
A case in point: In September 2019, Putin visited Mongolia and the two sides signed an agreement to foster a strategic partnership. In another major move, in July 2020, Russia offered Mongolia to join the Russian-led Collective Security and Defense Organization (CSDO) to enhance bilateral relations.
The current CSDO members include Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Russia. As CSDO members, Russian-made weapons can be purchased at cheaper domestic prices. Large-scale military exercises are held annually on the territory of some member states. In recent years, Russia has brought nuclear-capable Iskander tactical missiles into Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan through joint military exercises.
If Mongolia were to join the CSDO, it would become the first non-CIS member of this organization; more importantly, it would serve as a strategic deterrent against the CCP.
From the aforementioned moves made by Russia, one can have a glimpse at its dual-faced strategy towards China.
On the one hand, Russia will maintain close relations with the CCP to boost its economy and counter the strategic pressure from the West. On the other hand, it will forge closer relationships with China’s neighboring states and Asia-Pacific countries to avoid over-reliance on the CCP and to strategically keep in check the Chinese regime’s influence and ambition.
The strategic approach that Russia has taken toward China is based on the relative strengths of the two countries.
First of all, the Russian economy has been sluggish since 2008, and the economic gap between Russia and China has widened dramatically. For example, in 2020, Russia’s GDP was about $1.46 trillion, compared to China’s $14.8 trillion, according to Statista. Secondly, Russia still perceives itself as a world power, unwilling to just be a supplier of energy and raw materials to China, and wants to be on an equal footing with it. Russia has one more advantage over China—its military technology.
The former Soviet Union’s weaponry and equipment have long been the targets of the Chinese regime, which has wanted to acquire them by purchasing, copying, or stealing. But how long can Russia hold this military technology advantage over China? According to a senior researcher at the Stockholm Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) in Sweden, Russia may have only five to ten years until China eventually catches up. When that happens, how will Russia be able to compete with China for equal status?
The Russian authorities are well aware of the inherent contradictions and flaws of their current strategy toward China. Now, if Russia can’t see the true nature of the CCP and if it continues to hold on to its dual-faced strategy in dealing with China, then Russia will be in danger.
Wang He has master’s degrees in law and history, with a focus on the international communist movement. He was a university lecturer and an executive of a large private company in China. He was imprisoned in China twice for his beliefs. Wang lives in North America now and has published commentaries on China’s current affairs and politics since 2017.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.How to Secure Your Home on a Budget
Dear James: There have been some break-ins in my neighborhood, so I want to improve security at home. I’m on a tight budget. What are some simple do-it-yourself security tips? —Darrel K.
Dear Darrel: Almost every homeowner is on a tight budget these days, but there are still some things you can do to make your home more secure from break-ins. You might try contacting some security companies for a monitored alarm system. The monthly monitoring fees by some smaller local companies are reasonable, and they may install the system for free.
Even with an alarm system, making security improvements to windows and doors makes sense. Studies have shown that a burglar typically spends only 60 seconds trying to get inside a house. If it takes longer, he gives up and moves on. By making simple improvements to windows and doors, your goal is to make it just a little more time-consuming to get inside.
Unlocked doors and windows are the first place someone will try to break in, so it’s wise to check the locks whenever you leave your house or go to bed. The quality of the doors and frames themselves is important as well. Even if you have the best deadbolt lock on a cheap exterior door, a few stiff kicks may be enough to make a hole in the door itself.
Sliding glass patio doors are a common target for burglars. Once the lock is broken, the burglar can either slide them open or lift them off the track. To prevent the door from sliding open, place a broomstick in the track. You can also drill a hole through both the sliding and fixed panels and insert a pin in the hole, making it impossible to lift the panels out of their tracks.
For swinging entrance doors, install a rim lock or a surface-mounted deadbolt, as both are reasonable do-it-yourself projects. These can be either key- or spring-operated to activate the lock when the door is closed. A cylinder deadbolt is slightly more difficult to install, but it’s more secure than a rim lock.
Burglars sometimes try to partially break through a door and then pull out the hinge pins. To stop this, remove opposing screws from one of the hinges, and drive a double-headed nail into one of the holes to hold the hinge in place. The end of the nail that’s still sticking up should fit into the opposing hole where the screw was removed.
Once your doors are secure, tackle the windows. There’s only so much you can do with windows, because burglars can always break the glass. But they would rather not do that, because it makes noise when it breaks, and they generally don’t want to take the time to first tape the glass. Just do the first-floor windows if your security budget is tight.
Securing sliding windows employs similar methods to securing sliding glass patio doors. Double-hung windows generally have one or two locks between the sashes. Make sure the locks are totally closed, so shaking can’t make them rattle open. Drilling a hole through the upper and lower sash frames and inserting a pin can make them difficult to open from the outside. Always remove the crank handle from casement windows so they can’t be opened, even if the glass is broken.
Send your questions to Here’s How, 6906 Royalgreen Dr., Cincinnati, OH 45244, or visit Dulley.com. To find out more about James Dulley and read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.comHow to Save a Disappointing Bottle of Wine
What do you do when you buy a bottle of wine that, for one reason or another, is not to your liking? If the wine is sound and not spoiled in any way, but you just don’t like the style, you could always cook with it.
But that’s impractical and costly. Instead, what if you could fix it in your own kitchen? Since you bought it to enjoy and don’t relish cooking with a $30 bottle of shiraz, maybe there’s a way to make it better.
This happens to me often, especially with bottles that are not undrinkable, simply disappointing. In such cases, I resort to old tricks, ones I’ve used often.
In one recent case, a wine was both a little high in alcohol, so it burned my mouth and throat, and a little sweet from the high alcohol. It tasted like it was close to 16 percent. (The label said 14.5 percent, but I seriously doubt that.)
I added about a tablespoon of spring water to our glasses: Problem solved.
Purists might be aghast at the notion of doctoring our wine, but we weren’t about to drink it the way it came out of the bottle. Water solved two problems: It didn’t alter the wine’s aroma, other than making it a little fruitier because it lowered the alcohol, which was masking some of the fruit. And it cut the heat.
Caution: Avoid using tap water. Some tap water contains chlorine and can change wine in unattractive ways. The same applies to ice cubes—a strategy that works especially well on hot days.
No, I would not put chocolate sauce in my cabernet sauvignon, but adding a little water or an ice cube isn’t very invasive.
Decades ago, I knew a woman who added a little sugar to her bone-dry white wine. It made her happy. The “sour” wine was $1.99 a bottle, and adding a bit of sugar gave her a palatable drink that was satisfying. (I do not do this!)
There is a history here. For the past 70 years or so, a drink from France called kir has been a popular aperitif. When a white wine is too tart, a tiny dose of either crème de cassis, a blackberry liqueur, or occasionally some other fruit-flavored brandy makes a delightful kir.
This same tactic also works to enliven the neutral taste of inexpensive, ordinary sparkling wines. Such drinks are called Kir Royales.
As for wines that are too soft and lack acidity, I simply chill them further or add acid back into them.
Further chilling a wine that is too soft and lacks acidity can make it more enjoyable. (Vershinin89/shutterstock)
It’s easy to determine if a wine is balanced for our palates: Just take a sip. If it seems flabby or sweet, one trick I’ve used is to add a tiny bit of citric acid to each glass.
Citric acid is inexpensive and may be found in stores that cater to home canners. A quarter teaspoon of citric acid stirred into a four-ounce glass won’t change the aroma or taste of a wine, but it will make it a bit crisper, allowing it to work better with food.
A small amount of citric acid will make a too-sweet wine a bit crisper, allowing it to work better with food. (Michelle Lee Photography/shutterstock)
Also, some restaurants serve red wines far too warm, so we often ask for an ice bucket. The idea is not to chill the red wine, just to get it closer to “cellar temperature,” which is more appropriate for proper enjoyment.
I’ve often been chided by snooty waiters, who think I’m a heathen for wanting my red wine “chilled.” I ignore such ignorance. (I’ve tried educating them, but that too often fails miserably.)
To find out more about Dan Berger and read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate webpage at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.comThe Citizens Hall at the heart of the Royal Palace of Amsterdam serves to orient people in the world, the galaxy, and the universe. (Koninklijk Paleis Amsterdam)
The Royal Palace of Amsterdam at the Center of the Universe
Larger Than Life: Art that inspires us through the ages
The Royal Palace was originally the Town Hall of Amsterdam, created in the 17th-century golden era of Holland. It was a time when Amsterdam and its fleet of ships held a dominant trading position, attracting great wealth to the nation’s capital.
When the population grew fivefold, a new town hall was needed to serve the people. Jacob van Campen was the appointed architect. He designed in the Dutch classical style, drawing on the proportions and spatial designs found in classical architecture.
Located in the center of Amsterdam facing Dam Square, the Palace is a harmoniously balanced sandstone building, with the façade’s focal point being a central bay topped by a domed tower. The Palace was built upon exactly 13,659 wooden poles, which were made from Norwegian spruce and driven into soft ground to carry the weight of the building.
Bearing Amid the Cosmos
At the apex of the west façade, Atlas, a Titan from Greek mythology, stands holding the universe. He reappears in the interior, overlooking Citizens Hall. Each of the four archways leading into the hall from the galleries is ornamented with one of the four elements: wind, water, earth, and fire—the ingredients of all matter in the universe.
On the marble floor are two large, centrally positioned maps inlaid with brass. One outlines the earth’s landmasses, and the other is a star chart of the Northern Hemisphere revealing the galaxy beyond.
The Hall creates an empowering moment for guests, acting as a compass and providing bearing amid the cosmos. Artworks throughout the Hall then tell the story of Amsterdam as the center of the universe, which today reminds visitors of the prominence the city once held on the world stage.
For two centuries, the Royal Palace of Amsterdam was the largest secular building in Europe and was called the “Eighth Wonder of the World.” (Ratundo/Shutterstock)
The Citizens Hall at the heart of the Royal Palace of Amsterdam serves to orient people in the world, the galaxy, and the universe. (Koninklijk Paleis Amsterdam)
This relief represents the desire for a just Amsterdam, where avarice and envy—characteristics of thieves and murderers—are not tolerated. The skeleton with its hourglass symbolizes Time and the revelation of Truth. In the end, Justice and Truth will always prevail. Superchilum/CC BY-SA 4.0)
Inlaid with brass on the marble floor, this centrally positioned map outlines the earth’s landmasses. When not in official use, the Royal Palace is open to the public. King Willem-Alexander (C) attends the opening of the exhibition “Universe of Amsterdam, Treasures From the Golden Age of Cartography” on June 28, 2019. (FRANK VAN BEEK/AFP via Getty Images)
The sculptures and reliefs appear in the Tribunal, the place where criminals met their fate, with judgment and punishment handed down. When offenders were sentenced to death, they were hanged on the second floor. (frankmlee/Shutterstock)
Tulips from North Holland fill Dam Square, in front of the Royal Palace’s Dutch classical façade. National Tulip Day is an event held in January each year. (Neirfy/Shutterstock)
An 18-foot-tall statue of Atlas stands on the rooftop and in the main hall, carrying the universe on his shoulders. Atlas symbolizes the universe and the important position Amsterdam held during the Golden Age. (Jane Rix/Shutterstock)
In the Vroedschapskamer (room of the council), amid the rich interior decoration, the painting over the mantel by Govert Flinck would have reminded the council of King Solomon, who here is asking God for wisdom in leading his people. (Benning & Gladkova/Koninklijk Paleis Amsterdam)
In 1806, Louis Bonaparte, Emperor Napoleon’s brother, became king of Holland and soon after took the Town Hall as his Royal Palace. The architect J.T. Thibault supervised its redecoration in the Empire style. (Kit Leong/Shutterstock)
King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima. When the Dutch regained control of Holland, King William I adopted the Palace, and from 1813 to the present, it has been used by the royal family. Today, it functions mainly for state visits, award ceremonies, New Year’s receptions, and other official events. The building also plays a role in royal marriages and in the abdications and inaugurations of monarchs. (RDV)
The Town Hall in Amsterdam, painted in 1668, by Dutch painter Jan van der Heyden, found in the Louvre, Paris. (Public Domain)
James Howard Smith, an architectural photographer, designer, and founder of Cartio, aims to inspire an appreciation of classic architecture.Researchers Discover Remarkable 1,600-Year-Old Mosaic From Byzantine Age in Israel
Archaeologists carrying out excavations on a site prior to a new neighborhood development in Yavne, in Israel, recently discovered a well-preserved ancient mosaic.
The mosaic, which displays colorful geometric motifs in a black rectangular frame, was discovered by Israel Antiquities Authority researchers, led by Avishag Reiss.
The find dates back to the Byzantine period, during the Fourth to Fifth Centuries
The ancient mosaic floor discovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
An overhead view of the dig site in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Archaeologists have been carrying out large-scale excavations in Yavne, in collaboration with the Israel Land Authority, as part of the city’s development program.
The mosaic was amazingly well preserved and is suspected to have been part of a luxurious residential building in a wealthy area.
It is the first such colored mosaic floor to be found in Yavne, in an industrial area, said Elie Haddad, director of the excavation, of the Israel Antiquities Authority.
The ancient floor was found coated with a white patina (gloss or film), a the result of the find’s age, which led them to believe, initially, that the floor was a simple paving.
Detail of the impressive 1,600-year-old mosaic uncovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Detail of the ancient mosaic motif. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
“At first, we did not realize that the floor is multicolored,” said Haddad in a statement. “We assumed that it was a simple white paving belonging to yet another industrial installation.
“But black patches dotted around the mosaic suggested that it was more than one color and prompted us to remove the whitish patina that had coated it for years.”
The conservation director applied a special acid to the artwork with a brush to remove the patina, and to their surprise, a colorful mosaic ornamented with geometric motifs was revealed.
Such mosaics are unusual in industrial areas, and this one could indicate the possibility of more residential remains, said Haddad.
A wide-angle shot of the dig site and surrounding areas. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
After the mosaic was documented, drawn, and photographed, Israel Antiquities Authority officials transferred it to their workshop at the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem for treatment and preservation by experts.
The Israel Antiquities Authority, in collaboration with the Yavne municipality and Israel Land Authority, intends to make the mosaic available for viewing by the public and has identified a strategic location to place it.
The Yavne municipality, which focuses on making archaeology accessible to the town’s residents, is currently planning the infrastructure for the mosaic display, which will be placed in the plaza near Yavne’s cultural center.
An aerial view of the excavation site. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Preservation and relocation for the ancient floor will be carried out using ancient technological methods and materials similar to those used in antiquity for the sake of cultural authenticity.
“I am happy that the mosaic will be displayed in a central location in the city, so that the values embodied in its heritage are preserved and made accessible to the general public,” said Diego Barkan, from the Israel Antiquities Authority, in the statement.
Yavne mayor, Zvi Gur-Ari, emphasized the importance of culture preservation in the current age for the sake of future generations.
“Archaeological preservation and awareness of the past are important values in the city of Yavne, which has a magnificent history,” he said. “Future generations should also be able to see how the city evolved throughout history.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterPhotos: The Profound Bond Between Mongolia’s Last Eagle Keepers and Their Mighty Birds
Venturing to Mongolia to meet the country’s last remaining nomadic eagle keepers, Russian photographer Daniel Kordan turned his reverence into a series of incredible photographs.
Kordan’s work, a breathtaking mixture of epic landscape photography and intimate portraiture, exemplifies the bond between the keepers and their birds—an elusive 1,000-year-old tradition that runs the risk of dying out.
Today, fewer than 300 men keep falconry in western Mongolia’s Altai region alive.
Skilled handlers train young birds of prey—golden eagles are preferred, although they are hard to train—to assist in hunting foxes and hares for meat and fur.
The practice is known to the nomads as berkutchi. Once the domain of the noble classes, berkutchi has become a right of passage for young Mongolian men of the region, reported My Modern Met.
“I’m fascinated by nomad culture,” Kordan, who used local guides to connect with nomad families, told the outlet.
“It’s an elusive culture, almost extinct nowadays,” he added. “But these people try to keep the tradition and pass it on through generations.”
“All nomad families are connected,” the photographer said. After meeting one family, doors opened; a Russian native, Kordan was able to speak easily with the elders who know Russian from Soviet times.
Eagle keepers forge a profound bond with their winged companions, and their lives are inextricably intertwined.
A day in the life of a keeper, said Kordan, begins early with meal preparation; caring for horses, sheep and goat herds; and making furs to fend off the bitter cold. In winter, nomad groups migrate thousands of kilometers across the Gobi Desert to warmer climes, deconstructing and reassembling their ger tents as they go.
“That’s lots of endurance and work,” he told the outlet.
Perhaps most surprising, Kordan said, was his realization that the Mongolian nomads enjoy their lives, despite hardship.
Caring for one bird can last over a decade. These mighty predators are usually released back into the wild when they turn 10 to 12 years old.
“The bond with the bird is so strong!” Kordan said. “Actually, even the eyes and the look of the eagle and its master resemble each other.”
Engrossed by the possibilities of photography since growing up in a beautiful lake region near Moscow, Kordan graduated art school and studied quantum physics before taking up residence behind the lens.
“Nature is my inspiration,” he states on his website.
In venturing to Mongolia and capturing his subjects on film, Kordan’s respect for eagle keeping grew exponentially. Now, the photographer, who leads workshops and expeditions himself, hopes that others will choose to help preserve these unique traditions.
The talented photographer oversees guided tours on camelback and an annual eagle-keeping festival, a smaller event than the nomads’ own berkutchi festival that has come to attract thousands of tourists.
Kordan’s festival is an opportunity for visitors to witness and photograph scenic displays of Mongolian falconry for themselves.
“I’m very happy that I can support nomadic culture in this way,” he told My Modern Met. “We need to respect our ancestors, and continuing to preserve traditional culture definitely makes our lives better and filled with purpose.”
Check more of Kordan’s fascinating work below. Enjoy!
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterTelling the Stories of World War II Veterans: ‘Time Is of the Essence!’
An interview with filmmaker Tracie Hunter
Tracie Hunter is an Emmy Award-winning documentary filmmaker who, for the past five years, has focused her film skills on telling the stories of World War II veterans. Through her organization WWII Beyond the Call, Hunter and her team of volunteer filmmakers have been seeking out, sitting down, and capturing the harrowing stories of soldiers from history’s greatest conflict. Her latest work “A Rendezvous With Destiny,” about the last three surviving members of the 101st Airborne Division “Screaming Eagles,” premiered on May 29 at the National Veterans Memorial and Museum in Columbus, Ohio.
Hunter took the time to answer a few questions about the new release and the importance of capturing these historical moments of heroism and sacrifice.
Dustin Bass: How and why did you become interested in creating documentaries about World War II veterans?
Tracie Hunter: A few reasons. I was born into a family with a long line of military service, with my father serving in the Army for most of my life. Growing up on bases and in this environment, I gained an understanding and appreciation of the sacrifices of our veterans. My grandfather served in the Army as well, during World War II in the European theater. He was a Purple Heart recipient and also a POW of Stalag 9B. I felt that by creating documentaries based on the experiences of our World War II veterans, it could help not only bring understanding to this critical piece of our human history, but also offer a safe platform for our veterans to share their story.
“Rendezvous With Destiny.” (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: What is “A Rendezvous With Destiny” about?
Ms. Hunter: “A Rendezvous With Destiny” is centered around the last remaining 101st Airborne Division “Screaming Eagles” featuring Toccoa original Jim “Pee Wee” Martin, Dan McBride, and Dick Klein. The film focuses on the history of the 101st Airborne Division and the three veterans shared experiences through D-Day, Operation Market Garden, and the Battle of the Bulge.
World War II veteran Jim “Pee Wee” Martin. (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: How did “A Rendezvous With Destiny” come about?
Ms. Hunter: Back in 2019, I was approached by Dutch author and veteran LTC. Jos Groen. He wrote a wonderful book called “Three of the Last WWII Screaming Eagles” that tells the biographies of each of these veterans. His hope was that our team at Beyond The Call could bring his book to the big screen. I remember making my first phone call to Mr. Dan McBride to set up an interview for this. After only a few minutes on the phone, I knew I could not pass on helping to share this part of history.
Mr. Bass: What has it been like interviewing and spending time with veterans of one of the most famous divisions in World War II history?
Ms. Hunter: My time with these men has been priceless. In documentary filmmaking you really dive in and get to know the film subjects and their families. Something we really try to focus on at Beyond The Call is our relationships with the veterans and making sure they feel cared about and heard long after the cameras turn off. I think for me one of the most fascinating parts of my time with these men was getting to know what they did with their 75-plus years after the war. Dan McBride built his own planes and was a train conductor. Dick Klein married the love of his life, June, and Mr. Jim “Pee Wee” Martin still continues to jump! They are just incredible individuals that have truly made the most of their lives.
World War II Dan McBride. (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: You actually parachuted during the shooting of this documentary, correct? What was that like?
Ms. Hunter: [Laughs] I did! Through this process, Dan McBride and I have become great friends. He told me I ought to try jumping sometime. I couldn’t really say no to an original 101st Veteran on this recommendation. So this past March, I joined up with Liberty Jump Team and did my five static line jumps required to earn my jump wings. Dan was waiting for me below to welcome me in from the drop zone. It was a pretty remarkable experience. One of the coolest parts of this was that my last two jumps were out of an original World War II C-47 plane.
Mr. Bass: Did the veterans parachute as well?
Ms. Hunter: During my week at jump school, no. However, for Jim “Pee Wee” Martin’s 99th birthday, I had the pleasure of watching him jump with the Round Canopy Parachuting Team down in Palatka, Florida.
Mr. Bass: How did it feel to parachute and earn your wings?
Ms. Hunter: What was happening didn’t really sink in until that door opened to the first plane I jumped out of. There is no tandem jump in this so you have to have a lot of faith in your instructors and also in yourself to get you down to the ground safely. Dan McBride was there for my training and jumps. He told me, with a big belly laugh, that he had “worked all the kinks out” back in 1942 when it was all experimental and that I would be just fine. He also told me if I made it through the jump school course he would personally pin my wings on me at the ceremony. That’s one of the best feelings in the world to know your personal hero believes in you. Jumping for me was one way I could gain a better understanding and get a very small taste of what these men went through.
Hunter earns her wings. (Courtesy of WWII Beyond the Call)
Mr. Bass: How do you feel the documentary turned out? And is there a sense of relief or sadness or both that the project is completed?
Ms. Hunter: This has been one of the most difficult yet rewarding projects to date. Working with World War II veterans you always feel the clock is ticking. Time is of the essence! At the time of the pandemic and COVID outbreak, we had only filmed with Dan. Everything came to a screeching halt, and all we could do was wait and hope for the veterans to still be with us when it was a safer time to visit and interview them. I feel incredibly grateful to say that all three are still here with us today and will be able to see their film. To know we were able to complete this story despite what the past year has looked like for the world, means everything. So in a way I am relieved, because we did it. We were able to share not one but three more World War II veterans’ stories. But there is always a moment of grieving as projects come to an end.
Mr. Bass: How did the National Veterans Memorial and Museum become involved in the film?
Ms. Hunter: Initially, the National Veterans Memorial and Museum was going to be the location where we were planning to hold a reunion for the three men. When everything shut down, the museum continued to be incredible partners to us and shared our other films on their platforms throughout the year. It really was the perfect partnership for the times. Since they had to close their doors to visitors, they were looking for ways to still continue their mission of sharing veterans’ stories, and we had veterans’ stories that needed sharing.
Mr. Bass: What do you hope people take away after watching the documentary?
Ms. Hunter: After watching the film, if people don’t remember the names, battles, or dates, my biggest hope is that they do remember how the documentary made them feel. When I watch it back, I feel immense gratitude. My ability to freely speak with you today can be attributed to the bravery and courage of men like Dan, Dick, and Jim. We still enjoy today the freedoms and liberties their sacrifices granted us. Another theme the veterans touch on in this film is their ability to move on in a spirit of reconciliation towards their former enemies. I hope our viewers will reflect on how they can help to maintain the legacies of this generation and ensure their sacrifices are not forgotten.
To learn more about Hunter’s documentaries, see her website at WWIIBeyondTheCall.com/projects
Dustin Bass is the co-host of The Sons of History podcast and the creator of the Thinking It Through YouTube channel. He is also an author.78-Year-Old Retiree Fosters Over 80 Infants in 3 Decades: ‘God’s Handed Me a Gift to Do’
At 78, a veteran foster carer who has looked after 8o-plus infants in the span of over three decades, as a single foster parent, reflects on her role, calling it “challenging… but very rewarding.”
Linda Owens retired from her career as a grocery department manager, but still continues to care for babies, sometimes two at a time, from her home in Hayward, California.
“This is what God’s handed me a gift to do,” she explained to KPIX.
Many of the babies that Owens cares for as a foster or “resource parent” have been exposed to drugs while in the womb. As a result, some of them suffer from sleep disturbances and developmental setbacks after they are born. Owens has also fostered three sets of twins. Armed with 34 years of experience, she is unfazed by the challenges.
“She’s in a category almost all by herself,” said Mia Buckner-Preston, placement division director at Alameda County Department of Children & Family Services. “Her experience, the care, the love she provides to the babies, it’s immeasurable.”
The elderly woman is one of the longest serving among Alameda County’s 500 resource parents. She is paid for her work but has nonetheless bought some of the supplies—including bottles, formula, and baby clothes—with her own money.
Owens’s 81st foster child, a 7-week-old baby girl, has been in her care since she left the hospital as a newborn. While the impending goodbye is heartbreaking, Owens knows that adoption or reunification makes space in her home for another child in need.
“I can give her a kiss on the forehead and wish her the best, and say, ‘I love you,'” she reflected.
At any one time, the county’s Department of Children & Family Services is responsible for around 1,200 minors who are unable to live with their birth parents or legal guardians due to child abuse and/or neglect, according to the department’s website.
Resource parents, such as Owens, provide safe, stable homes that kids in crisis so desperately need.
Pediatrician Mika Hiramatsu, who has worked with Owens for years, described her to KPIX as “always very optimistic.” Her determination to give her young charges the best start is a gift to their future adoptive parents, and their lives are made easier by Owens’s expertise.
A woman named Erica, adoptive mom to a now-12-year-old girl that Owens fostered as a baby, recalled receiving some invaluable parenting advice from Owens, who told her, “I know you want to play with her, but if you wake her up, you’ll start interrupting her sleep.”
Erica and her daughter remain close to Owens, paying her regular visits and sharing the girl’s milestones. Owens claims her former foster daughter has “turned out beautiful.” She also said it made her feel good to know she had fulfilled her task.
Owens remembers all her former foster children, the oldest of whom is now 37.
At the end of April, Owens received the Bay Area Jefferson Award for her contribution to the community.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterThis shiomomi cabbage and kombu salad is ready to enjoy in less than an hour. (Melissa Uchiyama)
Japanese Pickled Cabbage and Kombu Salad
Shiomomi, the salt-massaged method, is the perfect place to start making Japanese-style pickles, or tsukemono. This recipe is adapted with permission from Elizabeth Andoh’s “Impatient Pickles.”
Serves 2 to 3 as a side
1 small, dense portion of cabbage (about 6 to 8 ounces), washed, dried, and sliced thinly, as if you are preparing a slaw
1 small cucumber (about 2 ounces), washed and sliced (unpeeled) into paper-thin rounds
1 1/2 teaspoon coarse or flaky sea salt
1-inch piece kombu (optional, see Note)
1 tablespoon fresh herbs, such as dill or mint, or organic citrus zest
Gather all thinly-sliced, fairly uniformly-sized veggies in a bowl and mix in the salt a bit to begin the sweating process. Transfer all ingredients to a sealable plastic bag. If using kombu, situate each small piece in a different part of the bag to evenly distribute taste and texture.
You can place your vegetable mix in a Japanese pickle press, or simply use a sealable plastic bag and a stack of heavy books. (Melissa Uchiyama)
Seal the bag and use your hands to massage the contents. Squeeze all air out of the bag, reseal, and place under weighted books or inside a pickle press. Store, weighted like this, for a minimum of 30 minutes or up to 12 hours at room temperature, or up to 24 hours if refrigerated. (Any longer, and your vegetables will become too saturated with salt and will break down further, turning limp.)
Rinse in cold water, drain, and gently squeeze out any remaining water. Enjoy these pickles impatiently—that is, immediately—or keep fresh in the refrigerator for up to an additional day. Remove the kombu just before eating, as it will be too tough for most.
You may present individual servings of your tsukemono in tiny dishes, squeezed together to form small, dense mountains, to accompany a meal, or pile it into one heap in a bowl for the table, the way you might with a family-style salad.
Note: Kombu kelp can be found in most Asian markets, specialty grocery stores, or health food stores, or ordered online. Though listed in the recipe as optional, the small, umami-packed strips can make a sea of difference, changing the texture and yielding a more delicious, more nuanced outcome.More Moreish Food, Please
Years ago, we moved from our home in Switzerland to England. Among the mixed emotions, one standout was a relief to live again in an English-language culture.
While I can write at length about our bumbling and surprisingly foreign experience settling into UK life, I will stay on the topic of language. After all, it was one of the perks of this international move, and the excuse we used to propel ourselves to a remote corner of southeast England in our well-intentioned quest to blend in. After all, we were fluent in the local language—we only missed a sturdy pair of wellies.
So, after arrival in London and a brief rental experience, we moved to a small provincial hamlet on the edge of the south coast, where we purchased a rambling, feng shui-challenged barn renovation with distant views to the Isle of Wight. Suddenly, we found ourselves feeling quite foreign with a steep learning curve before us. Among many of our adjustments, we were about to experience a crash course in British English.
We quickly adjusted to referring to the car boot (not trunk) and clothing articles such as knickers, jumpers, and trainers. Perhaps more important, we awkwardly learned to never, ever, compliment someone on their pants (blush), for they are trousers. Our written word adjusted, as well, to include u’s and t’s (neighbour, favourite, learnt, burnt). The letter “z” became “zed” and was often substituted with an “s,” as in finalise and civilised.
The language differences also extended to food terminology. Take, for example, the notion of tea. If your child was invited home by a classmate for tea one day, rest assured your precious 4-year-old would not be served a scalding cup of Earl Grey. Most likely, he would be supplied with an early supper served to children; beans on toast is a favorite. Or, if you were invited to a neighbor’s home for dinner and asked to bring a pudding, not to worry as to whether you should recreate a butterscotch pudding recipe from your childhood or up the ante with a posh chocolate mousse. Pudding, you see, is a synonym for dessert in British English, so you would be free to go big and whip up a cake or trifle.
Which brings me to one of my favorite descriptive words pertaining to food in British English: moreish. When I first heard it, I pictured long banquet tables of Arab moors digging into a sumptuous feast. I quickly learned that the word is more-ish, and it applies to a dish or food you simply cannot stop eating. It’s so delicious, you want more.
And moreish is what I was thinking when I wrote this recipe. While Asia is far from England, these spiced Asian pork lettuce wraps are indeed moreish. They are crisp and juicy, laced with ginger and spice. Better yet, you must eat them with your hands, which is a fun, interactive, and dribbly affair, and seems to make them taste even better. So, tuck in and enjoy these little bites. One will certainly not be enough.
Asian Pork Meatball Lettuce Wraps
Active Time: 1 hour
Total Time: 1 hour, plus chilling time
Makes 18 meatballs
For the Meatballs
1 1/2 pounds ground pork (turkey may be substituted)
3 large garlic cloves, minced
3 tablespoons panko breadcrumbs
1 scallion, finely chopped, green ends reserved for the rice
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon finely grated peeled fresh ginger
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
For the Rice
1 cup basmati or jasmine rice
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 small red jalapeño chile pepper, seeded and minced
1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil
For the Sauce
1/4 cup unseasoned rice vinegar
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons sweet chile sauce
2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 tablespoon finely chopped fresh mint leaves
2 teaspoons finely grated peeled fresh ginger
To Assemble
Vegetable oil for pan-frying
Little gem or butter lettuce leaves for wrapping
Asian hot sauce, such as Sriracha
Combine all the meatball ingredients in a bowl and gently mix to blend. Using a light hand, form the mixture into 1 1/2-inch meatballs. Place on a plate and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours.
Prepare the rice: Add the rice, 1 1/2 cups water, and the salt to a medium saucepan. Bring to a simmer over medium heat. Cover the pot and reduce the heat to low. Cook until the water is absorbed and the rice is tender, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and remove the lid. Lay a kitchen towel over the saucepan and replace the lid. Let the rice steam for 5 minutes. Fluff with a fork and gently stir in the reserved green scallion ends, the chile pepper, and sesame oil.
Mix all the sauce ingredients together in a small bowl.
Cook the meatballs: Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Add the meatballs to the skillet without overcrowding, and gently press to slightly flatten. Cook until well browned on all sides and thoroughly cooked through, 8 to 10 minutes, turning as needed. Transfer to a plate lined with a paper towel and repeat with the remaining meatballs.
To serve, spoon a little rice into a lettuce leaf. Top with a meatball and drizzle with the sauce. Serve with additional hot sauce if desired.
Lynda Balslev is a cookbook author, food and travel writer, and recipe developer based in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she lives with her Danish husband, two children, a cat, and a dog. Lynda studied cooking at Le Cordon Bleu Ecole de Cuisine in Paris and worked as a personal chef, culinary instructor, and food writer in Switzerland and Denmark. Copyright 2021 Lynda Balslev. Distributed by Andrew McMeel Syndication.Pickled Things: An Introduction to Japanese Tsukemono
The world of traditional Japanese tsukemono is vast and delicious—and easy to start exploring from your home kitchen
Think of pickles—what do you think of? Invariably, a sour crunch? Vats of bright green dill, maybe? The Japanese notion of a pickle often comes as a surprise.
What the Japanese call tsukemono, or “pickled things,” may be tart and crunchy, yes, or they may be soft, deeply sweet, and imbued with umami. They may be quickly brined, for a subtle change in flavor and texture, or long-fermented, until entirely transformed. Tsukemono don’t necessarily rely on vinegar, as many other pickles do, but ingredients such as miso, salt, rice bran, or sake lees. They’re not limited to vegetables, either: Chrysanthemum petals, whole plums, and even meat and fish may become tsukemono; the arena is vast.
Whatever the style of tsukemono, it is an essential, ever-present component of a Japanese meal, whether nibbled with a savory breakfast, lunch, or dinner. These pickles can act as a small salad, not needing any dressing; a refreshing, palate-cleansing bite between mouthfuls of rice; and an aid for digestion. With their vivid, varied hues, from electric-yellow to purplish-black, tsukemono also help bring a balance of the five elemental colors—red, yellow, green, black, and white—to every meal, as desired in traditional Japanese cuisine and philosophy.
Tsukemono is an essential, ever-present component of a Japanese meal, whether nibbled with a savory breakfast, lunch, or dinner. (gontabunta/shutterstock)
Japanese food is driven by the seasons, a philosophy called “shun,” and tsukemono are no exception. There are specific seasons for making and eating the hundreds of varieties of tsukemono, each meant to capture that particular ingredient at its prime.
“It is not about being able to serve foods out of season,” said Elizabeth Andoh, who has written extensively about Japan’s food culture. “The Japanese think of tsukemono as being able to capture the moment—with a subtle hand, or more of a punch.”
Local Specialties
Some tsukemono are popular throughout Japan. Umeboshi, for example, are quintessential tsukemono—the whole of Japan may make these sour, salty preserved plums. (Still, how they do so will vary from town to town, village to village, and house to house—some intensely tart, some mild and honeyed, others laced with ribbons of red shiso leaf.) The classic yellow Takuan, a daikon pickle created by and named after a notable Zen Buddhist monk, is another mainstay across the country.
Takuan, pickled daikon radish. (gontabunta/shutterstock)
Other tsukemono are tied to specific regions and prefectures. These iconic varieties are as instantly recognizable as a soccer team’s jersey and are popular souvenirs or gifts to bring back from travels.
From Nara in the west, you’ve got narazuke, traditionally white melon matured in sweet sake lees (kasuzuke) for months or even years, taking on a dark brown hue and a deep, sweet funk. In Kyoto, the signature pickle is senmaizuke, or “thousand-slice pickles,” comprised of ultra-thin, mandolin-cut wheels of turnip tasting of sweet vinegar, kombu, and togarashi pepper.
Narazuke, white melon pickled in sweet sake lees, a specialty of Nara. (Picture Partners/shutterstock)
Senmaizuke, or “thousand-slice pickles” made with thin-cut turnip, Kyoto’s signature pickle. (yoshi0511/shutterstock)
Kyoto is also famous for shibazuke, an eggplant pickle colored magenta by red shiso leaves and myoga, Japanese ginger buds.
Shibazuke, an eggplant pickle colored magenta by red shiso leaves and myoga. (sasazawa/shutterstock)
In Akita prefecture in the north, where white winters are long and the growing season is short, communities adapt their tsukemono to fit the environment. Since heavy snow and short days limit opportunities to sun-dry daikon, the vegetable is smoked instead, then pickled to last through the remainder of the harsh winter. The result is the region’s famous iburigakko, smokier than a campfire.
Iburigakko, Akita prefecture’s famed smoked daikon pickle. (KOHUKU/shutterstock)
Finding Tsukemono
In Japan, you can find tsukemono everywhere, from high-end shops to convenience stores. Modern shipping and distribution have also made it possible for people to sample regional specialties without having to travel.
Brick-and-mortar shops and online markets offer pickle enthusiasts the experience of tasting regional styles and supporting generations of farmers and craft artisans. Kintame, for instance, has been making Kyoto-style tsukemono since 1879, and today sells its wares both to-go and as part of a sit-down meal at locations in Kyoto and Tokyo.
Depachika, the famous food halls located in the basements of Japanese department stores, are strategic places to experience the plethora of regional tsukemono tastes. A white-gloved attendant may present you with a range of different specialties to sample before you buy.
Pickling at Home
Traditionally, Japanese households all made their own tsukemono, relying on pickle rooms and cool space under floorboards in the days before refrigeration. Most modern homes still have these underground nooks, in addition to refrigerators, where at least a few jars of pickles, miso, and other essentials can flourish.
A staple in the traditional Japanese home is a nuka pickle pot, used to make nukazuke. This type of pickle relies on nuka—rice bran—fermented with a mix of dried, umami-rich items, such as shiitake mushrooms, hot pepper, yuzu peel, or sardines (niboshi). This nukadoko—or pickling bed—is stored in a special, often ceramic, pot.
Homemade nukazuke, rice bran pickles. A nuka pickle pot is a staple in traditional Japanese homes. (bonchan/shutterstock)
Preparing a nukadoko can take months, as the ingredients ferment and become the perfect environment for making nukazuke. This longer-term method of pickling demands that the caregiver tend to the nukadoko daily, using bare, clean hands to turn it over, adding oxygen and health-promoting microorganisms. With careful upkeep, these living treasure troves can be kept alive over generations. Andoh tends a five-generation nuka pickle pot, and teaches others how to start their own.
The nukadoko must be turned over daily, adding oxygen and health-promoting microorganisms. With careful upkeep, these living treasure troves can be kept alive over generations. (bonchan/shutterstock)
But even without a Japanese home or ingredients, or starter cultures like nukadoko, there are simpler techniques that can flexibly bend their way into any kitchen in the world. Shiomomi, the salt-massaged method, is a perfect place to start.
“Shiomomi couldn’t be more basic or easier to make,” said Andoh. “All you need is salt and a little bit of muscle—determination.”
“Shio” means “salt,” while “momi” refers to the squeezing and massaging action that helps the salt draw out moisture from the vegetables, contributing to their own brine, and break down the cellular walls, immediately tenderizing even the toughest of cabbage. Part of the transformation comes from adding a bit of umami-rich kombu, which deepens the complexity of taste and texture.
The final step is to add pressure. You can place your vegetable mix in a Japanese pickle press, a gadget specialized for this purpose, or simply a sealed plastic bag under a stack of heavy books. This keeps oxygen out, and helps the brine transform the ingredients.
Andoh shared her recipe for a shiomomi cabbage and kombu salad, which she calls “impatient pickles,” adapted below. True to their name, the vibrant, crunchy pickles will be ready to enjoy in less than an hour.
Get to know the basic technique, and a world of tsukemono will begin to open up. Taste, test, and create your own variations, using what you have, and whatever seasonal produce is at peak flavor—radishes, fennel, cucumbers, eggplants. Try adding citrus zest, herbs, or hot peppers—the tastes of your own terroir. Soon, you’ll be making Japanese pickles for every meal.
RECIPE: Japanese Pickled Cabbage and Kombu Salad
Melissa Uchiyama is a food writer, essayist, and teacher who leads creative writing camps in Tokyo. You can find Melissa at EatenJapan.com and on Instagram @melissauchiyamawrites.Hand-Reared Baby Gorilla Gets Surrogate Mom After Birth Mother Struggles to Care For Him
An infant gorilla, hand-reared by keepers after his mother struggled to care for him, has been adopted by a surrogate mom.
Western lowland gorilla Hasani was born at Bristol Zoo Gardens in western England in August 2020. Yet keepers quickly realized that his birth mother, Kala, couldn’t manage him.
They designed a hand-rearing program, with six staffers on rotation to ensure that Hasani was fed up to eight times a day for a period of seven months.
“We really wanted to get them back together and give Kala another chance to look after him,” Lynsey Bugg, Curator of Mammals, explained in a Bristol Zoo news release.
Hasani, pictured on Nov. 19, 2020. (Courtesy of Jordan Jones/Bristol Zoo Gardens)
In March 2021, keepers felt that Hasani was ready for reintroduction, and Kala was interested, but sadly, she continued to struggle with caregiving. After weeks of trying, Hasani’s keepers had to accept that it wasn’t working out. However, they had another idea.
A resident female gorilla, Kera, 16, had had her own daughter, Afia, adopted by a surrogate, named Romina, when she fell ill with potentially fatal preeclampsia after delivering her baby via Caesarean section five years ago.
Yet despite her lack of rearing experience, keepers believed Kera would be up for the challenge.
Describing her as “very intelligent,” Bugg explained, “She has seen several other females rear their youngsters and so had a good foundation on which to build on.”
During Hasani’s hand-rearing, Kera showed an active interest in the infant. Introductions began with the pair touching through an open partition, with keepers on standby. Things went well; they were able to progress to unrestricted access within days.
Finally leaving the two gorillas alone, keepers watched on TV monitors from elsewhere in the gorilla house. “It is a question of using experience and judgment to decide how long to leave them,” said Bugg, who also works as an advisor on surrogacy for the gorillas’ EAZA Ex-situ Programme (EEP).
Hasani with his surrogate mom, Kera. (Courtesy of Jordan Jones/Bristol Zoo Gardens)
With Hasani safe in Kera’s hands, the pair were given their own enclosure. On May 20, the zoo confirmed on Facebook that Hasani is now spending every day and night with his surrogate mom, and is making great progress.
For the next three to four years, Kera will show her young charge how to live, thrive, and be independent.
“This is a fantastic success,” said Bugg. The baby gorilla, who may not have made it without his surrogate, is “back with his fellow gorillas inside of a year.”
The next step is for Hasani to meet the zoo’s other resident western lowland gorillas. He has already been close enough to hear their calls, and has met his father, Jock, and has been reintroduced to his birth mother, Kala, successfully.
Bristol Zoo Gardens is home to eight western lowland gorillas as part of an international breeding program to help preserve this critically endangered species. Conservationists from Bristol Zoological Society, the charity that oversees the zoo, are also involved in a gorilla conservation project in Monte Alén National Park, Equatorial Guinea.
According to Bugg, 9-month-old Hasani is a success story.
He’s “starting to copy Kera in natural gorilla behaviors such as nest building and stripping bark and leaves from branches,” she explained. “He will grow up to be a fully-functioning gorilla, thanks to the efforts of his dedicated keepers.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterFresno Teen Repairs Flag Memorial for His Eagle Scout Project, Honors Gold Star Moms, Veterans
A teen from Fresno, aiming to become an Eagle Scout, tackled a public project to give back to his community—and show respect to military families who have sacrificed for their country.
Before Christian Juvet, 17, could reach his goal of becoming an Eagle Scout, he had to show he was worthy of the title.
“Throughout Scouts, you’re taught a lot of different lessons and, and just traits of how to be a good citizen, and how to give back in your community,” he told The Epoch Times. “And it all really just led up to this Eagle project.”
Christian learned of a concrete flag memorial in Roeding Park that was in disrepair and badly in need of refurbishing.
The flag memorial in Roeding Park, Fresno, prior to refurbishing. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
Detail of the memorial prior to refurbishing. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
“I’ve seen how bad it was, and how faded and unmaintained it was,” Juvet said. “And after doing more research, I found the historical significance and the purpose that it was made for honoring veterans and Gold Star Mothers.”
In addition to earning his Eagle Scout title with the reno, the teen from Fresno Troup 95 also hoped “to complete the project as a sign of respect for veterans and Americans,” he said.
(L-R) Christian Juvet, his father, and his brother. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
Completed in the 1950s, the memorial was originally a planted bed of red, white, and blue flowers; but in 2007 it was redone in concrete for ease of maintenance.
Since then, it became dilapidated as paint faded and graffiti and other wear accrued.
To Christian—a proud patriot—the American flag has special significance. “To be a patriot to me means uniting with everyone under the flag to achieve greater opportunities and just to share support with everyone,” he said.
So, calling the City of Fresno, he quickly garnered support for the project from Mark Standriff, of Beautify Fresno, who was thrilled to give the go ahead. The City had the concrete memorial pressure-washed and all set for Christian and his friends to go to town.
Christian and his team working on the flag memorial on May 16. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
On May 16, the team got to work, cutting edges and rolling on fresh red, white, and blue paint over the relief concrete design in the park.
Meanwhile, local motorists were audible in showing their support while the teens worked. “A lot of them they honk and just show their appreciation because a lot of people pass by that flag,” Christian said.
“And I think that I really put an impact on the community, showing that we can—someone from the community, anyone, can—give vibrance and meaning to something that was once lost.”
After 10 hours, the team had finished their work.
The flag memorial, honoring Gold Star Mothers and veterans, after the work was completed. (Courtesy of Christian Juvet)
For Christian, also a budding artist, the project allowed him to use his artistic skills. He plans to attend college in the fall and pursue a degree in graphic design.
As far as becoming an Eagle Scout, Christian called the project “the biggest way to show how you’ve matured as an Eagle Scout, to show that you can lead other people, and that you care about the community.”
Christian is now all set to become an Eagle Scout on June 3.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterVideo Shows Track Team Helping Fellow Runner Battling Cancer Cross Finish Line—and It Goes Viral
A high school track and field team in New York was caught on video helping their fellow runner, who is suffering from cancer, cross the finish line after enduring grueling treatment.
The video, posted by the school on Twitter, went viral and has inspired viewers across the internet.
Sherendehowa High School senior Yeva Klingbeil is shown being helped by three teammates to finish the race, before the rest of the team rush in to cheer and chant her name.
(Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
In November 2019, Yeva was diagnosed with a rare type of cancer called rhabdomyosarcoma, which affected her jaw. Before the devastating diagnosis, she was an active member of the school track team.
She began chemotherapy in 2019 to treat the cancerous mass deposit around her jaw. Unfortunately, the chemo did not go well and caused damage to her brain stem.
The damage had an adverse effect on her health. She became very weak, developed breathing complications, and lost her ability to swallow food and fluids.
She was placed in intensive care for several weeks, which saw her regain some of her functions.
Since then, the tumor around her jaw has shrunk to half its original size, though she still can’t swallow any food. She breathes on a ventilator and feeds through a tube.
Taking to Twitter, the school’s athletic department posted the video, showing the team’s excitement at having Yeva back by their side.
Yeva Klingbeil (second from the right). (Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
“What a great moment to see Senior Yeva Klingbeil at today’s girls’ track & field meet,” they captioned in the video.
“Yeva’s teammates help her across the line in the 4X1 relay. Yeva continues her fight with cancer and we continue to be amazed by her spirit!!”
The tweet garnered over 250,000 views, and judging from the number of shares and comments, followers are impressed and inspired by both Yeva and her teammates.
“This is what helps me keep my faith in humanity, despite all the bad that exists in this world,” commented Twitter user Charles Kuyper.
This was not the first time the team came through for Yeva. In November 2020, coach Cloutier organized a marathon to help raise funds for her hospital bill.
Though the team had aimed to raise $10,000, the marathon brought in a whopping $21,473.
The surplus was shared with Family Reach organization, which offers financial assistance to families with cancer patients.
“Yeva and her family pray her brain will continue healing and she will be able to breathe, walk and eat once again,” Cloutier wrote on Yeva’s fundraising page.
“While Yeva has gone through all of this and more, she has never stopped caring about her friends and family and has never given up hope of recovery.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter2021 VW Atlas V6 SEL Premium R-Line
Seven-seater SUV refreshed for 2021
The base S model of the Volkswagen Atlas is equipped with a 2.0L engine, while SE and higher models are powered by a 3.6-liter DOHC narrow angle V6 engine. This V6 is coupled to an 8-speed automatic transmission with Tiptronic, then the power is distributed through 4Motion AWD with Active Control driving mode selection.
The V6 motivates the Atlas forward with up to 235 horsepower and 258 lb-ft of torque. Fuel economy is rated at 16 mpg city and 22 mpg highway for a combined average of 18 mpg. However, my week of driving netted a solid 22 mpg.
Looking from the back. (Courtesy of VW)
Engine start button gets you ready to roll quickly, while four-wheel independent suspension helps to smooth out the bumps on the way.
This large SUV is manufactured to go toe-to-toe with the likes of Toyota Highlander, Nissan Armada, Cadillac Escalade, and Kia Telluride. Atlas lands somewhere in the middle.
The interior of the Atlas. (Courtesy of VW)
The SUV’s large size is well represented by the 154 cubic feet of total passenger volume, plus a cargo capacity of 20.6 cubic feet with all seats up.
The three-row seating layout offers space for up to seven adults. The 60/40-split second-row bench tilts and slides forward, even with child’s seat in place. The two-passenger third-row bench is 50/50 split. Both second- and third-row seats can fold flat.
Cargo space behind the 50/50-split third-row. (Courtesy of VW)
Climatronic tri-zone automatic control features second-row rear zone controls and adjustable air vents to ensure all all three rows are cared for. The front seats are heated and ventilated, and the driver’s side also has 10-power power lumbar support with position memory.
The SEL Premium R-Line model has a heated, leather wrapped, 3-spoke R-Line steering wheel.
I felt the best interior feature was the Fender Premium Audio System, which envelopes the occupants with 12 speakers. It expresses the emotion of the musical performance for all to enjoy.
Fender Premium Audio System. (Courtesy of VW)
The all-new MIB3 infotainment system brings USB-C ports, SiriusXM, Travel Assist, and Emergency Assist. Also featured are wireless App-Connect with multi-phone pairings that can switch between compatible devices, and enhanced voice recognition. Illuminated USB-C ports are standard and they can be found in the center stack.
This system centers around an 8-inch touchscreen. However, I would have preferred a much larger screen. Media playback on the MIB3 system is handled by either the Composition Media module in the SE tier, or Discover Media system with navigation module on higher models. A rearview camera is standard across the model line.
Center touchscreen for the infotainment system. (Courtesy of VW)
The SEL model tier also receives the IQ-DRIVE assistance tech package treatment, which uses front and rear radars, a front camera, and several ultrasound sensors to detect potential harm. This system is implemented as Forward Collision Warning and Autonomous Emergency Braking with Pedestrian Monitoring, Blind Spot Monitor, Rear Traffic Alert, Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC), Lane Keeping System, Travel Assist, and Emergency Assist.
Atlas rests on 21-inch alloy wheels wearing all season tires. Full LED suite of automatic headlights, daytime running lights, and tail lights illuminate your way while announcing your presence.
The panoramic sunroof has a power tilting and sliding front section and a fixed rear section. It opens up to the outside to let in sunlight, wind, fragrances, and sounds to mix with the pleasant, quiet cabin.
Digital instrument cluster. (Courtesy of VW)
The R-Line bumpers, badging, and interior trim, plus silver roof rails accompany a trailer hitch that can pull up to 5,000 pounds.
Intelligent Crash Response System and Automatic Post Collision Braking System increase survivability should there ever be a crash.
Historically, one may think of Volkswagen as a brand for small economical vehicles that suits two folks just fine. However, for some time now we know that VW has morphed into a brand that helps fulfilling the needs of a diverse, intelligent, rapidly growing, and complex global society.
If you like roominess, top notch comfort, and safety technology, yet without sacrificing power of prestige, then you may want to take more than a fleeting glance at the VW Atlas.
Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price for the range-topping SEL Premium R-Line is $50,725.
Warranty Information
4 years/50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty
7 years/100,000 miles Corrosive Perforation Warranty
2 years/36,000 miles Roadside Assistance
Durhl Caussey writes a car column read around the world. He may be reached at this paper or durhlcaussey@gmail.com.Skywatchers Witness Breathtaking Rainbow Halo Around the Sun Over City in Southern India
A stunning spectacle was witnessed in the sky over Bangalore on Monday when a rainbow formed a halo around the sun.
Local residents observed and photographed the striking atmospheric phenomenon surrounding the sun in the southern Indian city.
Dr. Gouri Sateesh, 24, who was one of the hundreds of residents who captured the spectacular sight on her camera, said she was awestruck after witnessing the natural marvel.
A rainbow is an optical phenomenon which occurs when light passes through tiny pixel-like droplets of water in the atmosphere and is refracted so that all the colors of the visible light spectrum are made visible.
Likewise, the phenomenon may occur when sunlight passes through clouds (water vapor), causing this similar halo rainbow effect when looking in the direction of the sun.
“My uncle first spotted the halo but I joked and said it was just his phone’s camera lens not working properly,” Sateesh said.
“But he insisted and urged me to see it myself.
“I took my brother downstairs, camera at the ready. And lo behold, the sun was right above us, with a perfect rainbow surrounding it.
“My brother and I were awestruck.
“We’d never seen or heard of anything like it. My uncle wasn’t joking. I quickly dropped the exposure on my camera and clicked some pictures, fearing it would disappear before I could capture it.
“But it stuck around for an hour or so, before the clouds engulfed it.”
Photos of the dramatic atmospheric phenomenon were posted on social media where it went viral.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterSipping Vino and Savoring Vistas in Tuscany
Wandering the hilly, narrow cobblestone streets in our home base of Montalcino, Italy, a medieval city of interlocking passageways, steps, and alleyways curving around and through and behind and beyond the main square, I reminded myself I was walking through history that spanned 800 years.
When my husband and I stopped for lunch and I ordered a glass of the house wine, a bottle arrived at the table. When I protested, I was told to drink what I wanted and I would be charged accordingly. Not a bad system, I thought.
Later, sipping more wine—this was Italy, after all—on our apartment balcony overlooking the vineyards from whose grapes it was made, we debated whether to eat in or go out for another Florentine steak. The fact that our apartment was housed in a structure dating back to the 13th century on a farm boasting one of the best-known vineyards in Italy was a bonus.
Welcome to Untour, a wonderful well-kept secret that may change your concept of travel forever. The Untour program offers travelers a unique opportunity to not be tourists. It flies participants to one or more cities in almost a dozen European countries, inundates them with information, and puts them up in apartments for two to four weeks to live like the locals. It was a much safer option during the pandemic than staying at a hotel.
We were learning about our neighborhood but on our terms. Rise early or sleep in? Sightsee or stroll around town? Cook in or eat out? Whatever the choice, we returned to our apartment, which was much roomier and had a warmer ambiance than any hotel would provide. Also, here we could be sure that strict COVID protocols had been adhered to.
Vineyards run for as far as the eye can see in some parts of Tuscany. (Courtesy of Victor Block)
The town of steps, turns, and back alleys that initially seemed daunting to navigate soon became negotiable. We mastered shortcuts to the center of town, got to know local vendors, and began to feel secure enough to risk getting lost on purpose. The sense of pride I felt when giving some harried American tourists directions bordered on smug.
Each day brought a new adventure, often beginning with a visit to any one of several nearby “hill towns,” which indeed come by their name honestly. One day, it was the Renaissance city of Pienza, known for its harmony of landscape and structure, a town for which the word “charming” was invented. Another day, we visited San Gimignano, claiming more intact towers than any other hill town—13, 14, or 15, depending upon the not-so-reliable source material. Or tiny Murlo, a town of 17 that resembled a movie set of a 13th-century village.
A visit to Abbadia San Salvatore introduced us to an eighth-century abbey that claimed to be newly renovated, but those “recent” restorations took place in the 15th century. This sense of time warp is ever present. The present and past coexist harmoniously as one can travel back and forth through multiple centuries while just doing day-to-day errands.
Every town has its church that dates from the 1200s, a museum celebrating its art, its de rigueur duomo, fortress, and possibly Etruscan tomb. But for me, the wonder of traveling is to be found wandering the streets, and in Tuscany especially, stopping at every cafe for a cappuccino or scoop of gelato.
It’s always the right time for a gelato break in Tuscany. (Courtesy of Victor Block)
Though my husband’s eyes were beginning to glaze over at the thought of another medieval town, I was still entranced by the narrow streets, steep hills, and back alleys. We broke up our days with hiking in nearby national parks, meandering through local outdoor markets, checking out a cock festival that had been held in a close-by hamlet for more than 700 years, and doing errands such as laundry, email, and shopping for quiet dinners at home.
One of our favorite hangouts was Taverna dei Barbi, an old stone tavern on the grounds of the vineyard where we lived. Sitting among the eerie granite-covered archways and columns, I felt like I was in a very sophisticated, warm, welcoming—dungeon.
The taverna’s sausages and salami come from their resident pigs, the cheeses from their sheep, the veggies from the garden, and, of course, the wine from their vineyards. Most restaurants at home are not quite that self-sustaining. I was glad I hadn’t taken a tour earlier and gotten to know any of the local inhabitants by name.
Our days were filled with a meshing of hills and happenstance, vistas and vino, walled cities, and watchtowers—a chance meeting at a museum, church, fortress, or, better yet, a wine-tasting.
Perhaps that’s the essence of the Untour experience. There’s something more special about discovering such treasures on your own rather than being herded there as part of a group according to a predetermined schedule that dictates how long you can spend looking before it hurries you through because the bus is leaving to go to the next stop. It was so much nicer just to pick up some roasted chicken, wave to shopkeepers we had befriended, and return home to sit on our porch, sip yet another glass of wine, and savor our most recent exploits.
When You Go
For more information: Untours.com
Fyllis Hockman is a freelance writer. To read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.com6 Tips to Save Money in the Yard and Garden
Budget landscaping and yard care doesn’t mean cutting corners; it means making the most of your tools and existing plants. Follow these six easy-to-implement tips to save money on your great outdoors.
Remember: Seeds are Cheaper Than Plants
Many vegetables are easy to grow from seed, and a $2 seed packet is a lot cheaper than a full-sized plant—or buying vegetables from the store. Try tomatoes, peppers, squash, cucumbers, beans, lettuce, and beets from seed. They’re easy, even for beginning gardeners. Start them indoors under lights for a head start or sow directly in the garden. If you’re nervous about starting from seed, seedlings purchased from a nursery are typically only slightly more expensive.
Invest in a Mulching Mower
A good mulching mower pays for itself in several ways. First, you don’t have to pay to have grass clippings bagged and hauled to a composting facility. Second, returning clippings to your lawn is like free fertilizer. Over the course of a full season, you’ll return about as much nitrogen as one full-strength feeding. And when fall comes, do the same with fallen leaves.
Save Money on Soil
A large container can be expensive to fill with fresh potting soil. To save money, place one or more empty nursery pots upside down in the bottom. Not only does it reduce the amount of soil needed, it reduces weight, too.
Inspect Your Sprinklers
Long watering is an expensive proposition in the summertime. To make sure your sprinklers are operating efficiently, have an irrigation expert do a walk-through water audit and suggest ways to reduce water bills. If you have an automatic irrigation system, use sensors to make it more efficient. They can help you water exactly as much as needed, and no more.
Trade Perennials With Other Gardeners
Mature perennials in your garden are a valuable resource. Most perennials can be dug up and divided, yielding two, three, even four splits. And each of these can be replanted elsewhere. Even better, trade with other gardeners, swapping divisions of your perennial for varieties in their gardens that you’d like to try.
Plant a Tree for a More Efficient House
If you have a hot western wall exposed to the afternoon sun, try planting a tree that will shade it. Not only can it add to the overall aesthetic of your surrounding yard, the shade it throws can significantly reduce your cooling costs.
Better Homes and Gardens is a magazine and website devoted to ideas and improvement projects for your home and garden, plus recipes and entertaining ideas. Online at BHG.com. Copyright 2021 Meredith Corporation. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.Dante Alighieri: All About Love
When the Beatles crooned “Love is all you need” in 1967, they coined an anthem for the flower power age, but when Dante Alighieri composed “The Love that moves the sun and the other stars,” he created the theme song of the Renaissance and beyond.
Worldwide celebrations are underway for the 700th anniversary of Dante Alighieri’s death, the Italian philosopher poet whose early amorous ditties would give way to an epic poem capable of uniting a scattered nation, inspiring generations of artists, and reflecting a universal human story.
Dante Alighieri was born in Florence Italy in 1265, and as a scion of a distinguished house, he followed the usual track of medieval young influencers: military duty in a few skirmish battles with neighboring towns, a stint at the University of Bologna (then merely a century old), and participation in public political life. But neither war nor statesmanship drew Dante; his path lay in the art of poetry.
Influenced by courtly troubadours of France and Sicily, he moved swiftly away from writing in Latin—still the official language of the Italian peninsula—to the Italian vernacular, the dialect of the people. Dante was soon attracted to a set of young poets pioneering a “sweet new style” popular verse that employed accessible language, catchy meter, and sang of love, love, love.
He enjoyed fame and fortune until the vicissitudes of medieval politics ousted him from Florence. Dante spent the final 20 years of his life in exile, dependent on benevolent benefactors, and experiencing “the bitter taste of others’ bread,” until he settled in Ravenna under the protection of Guido da Polenta, where he died in 1321.
It was during this turbulent period of his life that the poet errant composed the “Divine Comedy,” a poem of one hundred stanzas, called cantos, divided into three books, Inferno, Purgatory and Paradise. He developed a rhyme system called “terza rima,” an interlocking musical rhythm that propelled readers through an imaginary journey through the horrors of Hell, the sufferings of Purgatory and the joys of Heaven. Written in the vernacular, the work crafted timeless images out of words, raising Italian to a language of literature, while forging a common tongue for the fractious populace of the numerous city states freckling the peninsula. Dante demonstrated how the beauty of words could draw people together, instead of causing pain and estrangements.
The “Divine Comedy,” although a masterpiece of the Middle Ages, was inspired by the ancient Mediterranean literary traditions of Homer and Virgil, the latter—who famously wrote that “love conquers all”—acting as guide for the first part of Dante’s journey. Yet, while the “Aeneid” recounted the story of the Roman people, and the “Iliad” that of the Greek states, Dante’s poem transformed the human condition itself into an epic tale, proposing an existential heroism that could be transmuted from age to age. Certainly, the window dressing of the “Divine Comedy” features a fair amount of medieval insider gossip, but his spiritual journey would resonate with people far beyond his own borders.
Dante, a believer, moved in an age of faith: his heroes are saints and his framework Christian, yet his story captures the collective imagination. Caught in the snares of his own ambitions and desires, Dante describes himself as alone “in a dark wood, having lost the right way.” Paralyzed by fear, hounded by personal demons, the poet bares himself in a fashion that every human being can relate to. Dante’s salvation comes through love, not the amorous dalliances he sang of as a boy, but the transformative self-giving love that confers meaning and purpose. The “Divine Comedy” is a love song about a man who learn to love more than himself.
Dante as Inspiration
As Dante painted pictures with words, so artists found inspiration in the images evoked by his poetry. Its most fertile terrain was Florence, where a repentant populace raced to embrace its rejected son. Chapel frescoes reconstructed the “Inferno” while Botticelli turned his genius to illustrating the entire poem. Michelangelo Buonarroti not only dabbled in poetry and knew the “Divine Comedy” by heart but referenced the work several times in his masterpiece: “The Last Judgment.”
“The Last Judgment,” 1536–1541, by Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel. (Public Domain)
But amazingly, long after the lights dimmed on the Renaissance and the Protestant Reformation gave way to the Enlightenment, Dante’s work continued to leaven secularized society. France, fascinated by the “Inferno” as are most Dante neophytes, seized upon the romantic tale from Canto V of Paolo and Francesca, adulterous lovers killed in “flagrante delicto,” and buffeted for all eternity by the winds of their passion. Dante’s own evident sympathy for the pair appears to lessen the gravity of their sin, which inspired French painters to depict everything from the romance of the furtive first kiss, to two lithe spirits whose eternal torment is portrayed as a graceful ballet.
In 1855, engraver Gustave Doré took on the herculean project of illustrating the entire opus. Finding no publisher, he took on the expense himself. Doré was gratified by not only the enthusiastic reception of the first book but by a telegram from his publisher reading, “Success! Come quickly! I am an ass!” The 135 drawings are, to this day, the most recognizable illustrations of the poem, where the engraver’s pen beat in perfect time with the poet’s words. Scratching the “Inferno” scenes out of heavy dark lines, Doré evoked tangled nature and lurking demons. When Farinata degli Uberti emerges from the abyss of heretics in Canto X, the haughty figure is surrounded by darkness, emphasizing his choice of prideful isolation.
Dante and Virgil enter the Infernal city of Dis where Farinata Degli Uberti rises from the flames. A Gustave Doré woodcut illustration from Canto X of “The Divine Comedy: The Inferno.” (Public Domain)
Light increases in the images of Purgatory. flickering over more energetic strokes, underscoring the dynamic aspect of the repentant souls working towards a goal. But Doré’s Paradise is a wonder to behold. Tiny lines cluster to form the exquisite, ethereal figures of saints and angels. Light permeates everything. Doré captures the rapturous power of love, drawing into the contemplation of mystery, a harmonious marriage of poetry and pictures.
Dante and Beatrice gazing at Empyrean, in Canto XXXI of Dante’s “Paradise,” illustrated by Gustave Doré. (Public Domain)
Thanks to Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” the English knew of the “Divine Comedy,” and the first full translation of the poem was made in 1802. This was followed by a translation by Henry Francis Cary, which would be illustrated by William Blake, who produced 102 watercolor illustrations before his death in 1827. Blake’s images exude vitality with splashy color and naïve figures, but they lack the majesty of Doré. The Pre-Raphaelite movement also dedicated many a canvas to the subject, complementing Dante’s descriptive verse with lavish imagery.
“Dante Running From the Three Beasts” by William Blake. In 1824, artist John Linnell commissioned Blake to illustrate Dante’s “Divine Comedy.” (Public Domain)
Dante disembarked in the New World thanks to Henry James Longfellow. Longfellow, who spent many years in Europe, had started translating sections of the “Divine Comedy” as early as 1839. His admiration for the work inspired his own 1855 opus, the “Song of Hiawatha,” the first epic poem of the United States. As Dante had sought to unify Italians through language, Longfellow aspired to knit together the new inhabitants of North America and its indigenous people by composing a love story set among Native American tribes against a backdrop of its natural beauty.
A 2013 edition of Longfellow’s translation of Dante’s “Divine Comedy.”
“Love, that in gentle heart is quickly learnt,” wrote Dante, proposing that no one is immune to the power of love. Longfellow translated that spirit into the nascent literature of the United States, as well as opening access for American students to read Dante’s work. With myriad translations in poetry or prose, and depictions from etchings to animations, Dante poem reveals that indeed, love is a many-splendored thing.
Elizabeth Lev is an American-born art historian who teaches, lectures, and guides in Rome.How Temecula Businesses Outwitted the Pandemic
It’s an early Sunday morning in Temecula, California. The sun is high enough now to burn away the low-hanging mist that slides in from the ocean to reveal a Tuscan-like landscape of softly rolling hills, castlelike wineries, and expansive ranches famous for breeding and training championship quarter- and cutting horses.
Mark Matson (who looks like he could have stepped right out of a John Ford western) and his skilled horsewoman wife, Marika, are the owners of the Temecula Carriage Co. Along with their assistant, Arlene Eyerman, they’ve been up for a while, making sure the horses are fed, tack is polished, and their fleet of carriages is ready for today’s champagne clip-clop tours.
Visitors pause to listen to mariachi music outside Bolero at Europa Village in Temecula, Calif. (Courtesy of Jim Farber)
Ten or so miles away in the downtown section of Temecula known as Old Town, the cooking and serving staff at E.A.T Marketplace, led by Executive Chef Leah Di Bernardo, is busy frothing lattes, bagging freshly baked doughnuts, and serving a bevy of breakfast delights. Since its opening in 2010 just steps from the civic center, E.A.T has been one of Temecula’s favorite go-to spots.
A few blocks from E.A.T, on Front Street, the staff of Temecula’s stellar new eatery, the Small Barn, the creation of Dan and Cathy Gibson, is settling into the daily ritual of prepping the kitchen: checking the meat locker, selecting fresh produce, and slicing and dicing the ingredients that will appear on Chef Angelo Sosa’s lunch and dinner menus—including the restaurant’s signature 32-ounce Wagyu beef tomahawk steak.
Meanwhile, back in the vineyards, the expansive flagstone patio of Bolero Winery at Europa Village is getting set up for what is certain to be a festive day of music and wine-tasting, with everyone looking for some pandemic relief—from families celebrating birthdays to cabanas filled with colors-wearing bikers sipping Syrah.
And while masking and health protocols are still in effect, a year ago, at the height of the pandemic, none of these scenes would have ever seemed possible. It was only through a combination of fortitude, imagination, and some much-needed government assistance that these four companies were able to survive and come back the way they have. The fact that they are almost all hiring and training new staff is a testament to how far they’ve come.
When California clamped shut, revenue streams dried up and mass layoffs followed. The staff of E.A.T. was reduced to two—Leah Di Bernardo and her sister, Joanne Scott. When they got a call from the County of Riverside to start turning out thousands of meals for shut-ins as part of the state’s Great Plates program, they added staff and went into triage mode, working at a feverish pace. Di Bernardo described it as the equivalent of being in a war zone, complete with the lingering effects of PTSD, from which she says she is still suffering.
The grand expansion plans at Europa Village—including its lavish new casitas—were put on indefinite hold. The Gibsons’ vision for opening their amazing new restaurant went from dream to nightmare. The Matsons were so desperate they didn’t know if they’d be able to afford to feed their horses, which include their movie star Clydesdales, Chip and Floyd, which were featured in a Super Bowl-Budweiser parody ad.
The menu at E.A.T. in Temecula, California, includes a signature 32-ounce Wagyu beef tomahawk steak. (Courtesy of Jim Farber)
Dining-in stopped entirely. Construction slowed to a crawl. Bolero relied on wine sales to keep going. Fortunately for the Gibsons, they had their business as plant growers and vintners to fall back.
The answer was ingenuity.
If romantic Cinderella coach rides were out of the question, the Matsons thought, why not create a theme-park-type ride as an alternative. For Halloween, they offered socially distanced carriage rides pursued by a galloping headless horseman. A transformed barn became Santa’s gingerbread house workshop complete with Old Saint Nick and his helpful elves. They created a Peter Rabbit egg hunt for Easter. Ironically, says Mark, the new events they created were so successful that he and Marika are thinking they might not even want to go back to business as usual.
Today Front Street in Old Town is bustling. Tasting rooms are open and wine is pouring throughout the valley. E.A.T almost resembles its former self, and the Small Barn is no longer a pipe dream but a culinary reality—think of it as the French Laundry next door to Texas Lil’s Mesquite Grill.
That’s Temecula!
When You Go
Visit Temecula: VisitTemeculaValley.com
The Small Barn: SmallBarn.com
Bolero at Europa Village: EuropaVillage.com/bolero
Temecula Carriage Co.: TemeculaCarriageCo.com
Jim Farber is a freelance writer. To read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Creators.comMom of 3 Who Lost 84 Pounds Says Her Daughter, 6, Is Finally Able to Hug Her Properly
A mother was finally able to get a proper hug from her 6-year-old daughter for the first time after she shed a whopping 84 pounds (38 kg).
Carla Ford, 33, ballooned to 224 pounds (101 kg) as she got into a habit of binge eating after becoming a mother while juggling a part-time job and returning to college to get the grades she needed to become a midwife.
She began gorging on Greggs sausage rolls, biscuits, vanilla lattes, chicken pesto pasta, and takeaways for nearly a decade.
“I was always brushing my weight under the carpet,” Carla said. “Truth be told I was so unhappy with how I looked. I would be in tears with how I let myself get.”
“So much so that I used to wash my hair twice a day to make sure it looked nice because that was the only thing I could instantly fix,” she added.
In March 2020, the mom of three, from Edinburgh, Scotland, went for a routine checkup at her GP surgery and was told she was on course to develop Type 2 diabetes. The news of her weight “eventually hit home.”
Devastated by the projected diagnosis, the trainee midwife was subscribed to antidepressants to help her cope with the news of the health scare.
Four months later, Carla decided to shift the pounds with a low-carb diet that sees people cut out the likes of bread and sugar.
“I had no time for me but when it was midway through the lockdown I thought, what with the health scare, if I don’t do something now it’ll never change,” Carla said.
She switched to a healthier diet comprising scrambled eggs, crispy bacon, and avocado for breakfast; followed by tuna salad with olives/cooked chicken and cheese for lunch; and cottage pie with swede mash and lots of buttered green veg for dinner; along with a deliciously guilt-free salted caramel blondie with whipped cream for dessert.
For snacks, Carla opted for healthier options, such as pork scratchings with alioli and cashew nuts.
“I completely overhauled my diet and the first four or five days were really tough as it’s a shock to your body,” Carla said. “But after a few months I noticed I was losing all the symptoms of my PCOS. The horrendous skin cleared up along with the excess facial hair and the feeling of being constantly hungry had also reduced.”
In addition to a change in diet, Carla began walking a lot more and signed up to go to the gym in November, after having already lost 70 pounds (32 kg).
“I also didn’t want to be doing a job where my weight would bring me down,” Carla said. “I didn’t want to be unfit while doing a 12-hour shift.”
Carla had worked hard for four years as a mature student to earn the grades she needed to get a place in university, juggling taking care of her three children at the same time.
Within six months of changing her diet, Carla reversed her trend toward diabetes, and her polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) symptoms have also reduced.
“I just feel so much better for it all,” Carla said. “I’ve tried so many diets over the years and seen my weight yo-yo but nothing has actually stuck.”
“This has and I’ve never felt better mentally or physically,” Carla added.
Carla mentioned that, recently, there has been a lot of attention given to the keto diet on social media, with some stating that it might be unhealthy and unsustainable, but for Carla, she says, this is not the case.
“It’s genuinely saved my life,” she said.
“I won’t ever go back to eating the way I did before now that I know what works for my body and the vast benefits I’ve had from reducing my carb intake,” she added.
Additionally, Carla has been receiving regular blood tests from her doctor in order to ensure that her body is working as it should with her new lifestyle. She now strongly believes that nutrition can help with so many issues that normally have medication prescribed.
Now weighing 140 pounds (63.5 kg), Carla says her remarkable weight-loss journey finally hit home when her daughter, Florence, hugged her one evening and said her “arms could reach one another.”
“She said ‘mummy my arms can touch one another now,'” Carla recalled. “It’s things like that which I never would have realized before but are obviously impacting her.”
On achieving her ideal weight, Carla said weight loss has enabled her to fulfill her dream to be a midwife, which she is currently training for at Edinburgh Napier University.
Carla also tracks her fitness and food regime on her Instagram account to help inspire others with their weight-loss journeys.
Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterOver Friendly Octopus Grabs Hold of Diver for a Big Kiss in the Waters of Hawaii
A pair of divers were hoping to get up close and personal with some marine life when they plunged into the waters off Hawaii, but they probably never imagined how close they really would get.
Caleb Heikes and his diving companion were thrilled when they saw octopuses approaching them as they led a dive off the coast of Oahu. Caleb was then reduced to fits of laughter when one octopus decided to pull itself in for a kiss, and wrapped its tentacles around his head.
“This octopus was definitely not aggressive!” Caleb, who runs the diving firm Hawaiian Diving Adventures, said. “However, they are extremely curious and intelligent. If you take the time to befriend one, then they can become comfortable around you.”
Sharing details of the moment, Caleb recalled that he and his diving companion spent almost an hour with the octopus before it climbed onto his face.
“I had my hand placed next to it until it crawled up my arm and decided to sit on my face and have the bubbles from my regulator act like a jacuzzi,” Caleb said, adding that the whole time the octopus sat on his face, he just kept laughing about it.
“I didn’t expect it to sit on my face the way it did but like I said I think it liked the feeling of the bubbles,” Caleb said. “I definitely had a tentacle or two wrap around my lips and enter my mouth, that was a very bizarre feeling.
A cheeky octopus grabs onto a female diver’s bottom. (Caters News)
“They are kind of slimy and very soft and leave some of that slime behind when they decide to leave. Their suction cups are hard to describe but when they use them to pull you, they are very strong. It almost tickles.”
However, Caleb warned that, though octopuses are small, they are very strong and have a really sharp beak, and they can bite on things when they feel threatened.
An octopus grabs Caleb’s arm. (Caters News)
After eventually letting go of the passionate embrace, the octopus made sure to cling onto another female diver’s backside for a hug.
In explaining octopuses’ behavior further, Caleb noted the “eye contact they hold as they use their tentacles to figure out what you are. They definitely stare into your soul.”
Caleb also offers a word of caution: People shouldn’t go around picking up octopuses as some can be dangerous or poisonous.
“They are wild animals and should be left alone for the most part,” Caleb said, emphasizing that the octopuses in the photos are the ones he is lucky enough to see on his job and has taken the time to get to know them.
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterWoman Is Shocked After Giving Birth to a Boy Weighing 12lb 9oz and Measuring 2 Feet Tall
A mother in England was left astonished after giving birth to a baby boy measuring two feet tall and weighing a whopping 12 pounds 9 ounces (5.7 kg). He was so big that he didn’t even fit on the weighing scales.
Amy, 27, and her husband Zac Smit, 28, from the Buckinghamshire village of Cheddington, were shocked when they first laid eyes on their son Zagrys, also known as Zeik.
Baby Zagrys Smit, also known as Zeik. (SWNS)
The mother of two, who underwent a C-section because of Zeik’s size, said: “He was so big that it took two people to lift him out.
“There were all these really small ladies around me, and I heard one of them saying, ‘I need some help, he’s enormous.'”
When the midwives lifted Ziek above the screen for Amy and Zac to see, Amy was in absolute disbelief looking at him.
“We knew he was going to be a tall baby because all the scans showed he was quite long, and both Zac and I are around the six-foot mark,” Amy said. “But we had no idea he would be that big.”
Ziek, who was born on March 25, didn’t even fit the scales when they wanted to weigh him. His mom says that they had to create a makeshift plank just to balance him as he was so long and wide.
Amy said she had bought clothes that would fit a 3-month-old baby as they expected him to be tall, but after Zeik was born, she had to ask her husband to go buy clothes for a 6-month-old baby as none of the previous clothes fit Zeik.
Amy and Zac’s first daughter, Lola, who was born in September 2018, was also a big baby and weighed 9 pounds 2 ounces (4.14 kg).
However, the mother was struck by how different her appetite was in both pregnancies.
Zeik with his parents Amy and Zac. (SWNS)
While expecting Zeik, Amy lost her appetite and just went off food.
“I never fancied any meals, I couldn’t eat meat or anything,” Amy said. “During my first pregnancy with Lola, I was snacking all day long, I couldn’t stop eating.”
Now, however, she can’t help but imagine how much bigger Ziek would have been if she had of eaten a lot more.
Ziek, who is now 2 months old, weighs 14 pounds 12 ounces (6.7 kg) and is a happy, smiley baby, according to his mother.
Zeik is now 2 months old. (SWNS)
His older sister is besotted with him and always wants to be with him and give him cuddles, calling him “my baby.”
Amy says her husband jokes around, saying that Zeik is going to be a rugby player. “He’s South African so he’s really into his rugby, and with Zeik’s size, he’s already calling him our little rugby player,” Amy said.
Lola with her baby brother, Zeik. (SWNS)
Despite Zeik’s huge size, though, he hasn’t won the title of United Kingdom’s biggest baby, which is currently held by George Joseph King who was born in February 2013 at Gloucester Royal Infirmary weighing a staggering 15 pounds 7 ounces (7 kg).
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter‘Regieoper’ Versus ‘Werktreue’: A New Act for Opera
Opera has become a joke in modern pop culture. From commercials to movies, it’s always considered funny to make a crack about opera and its singers. Tropes of stout blond singers in horned helmets and breastplates are all that most people know about opera. However, most people have never experienced real opera. Other than Mozart’s “The Queen of the Night” aria and a few Wagner choruses, most of opera’s beautiful music is unappreciated.
Unfortunately, modern opera stages rarely present traditional operas as they were written and have been enjoyed for centuries. In the 21st century, it has become standard practice in the United States to modernize or alter traditional operas. This practice, which originated in Germany in the 20th century, is called “Regietheater” or, when specifically applied to opera, “Regieoper.” Its antithesis is “Werktreue,” the German term for works that closely adhere to their creators’ original intentions.
Regieoper: The Director’s Opera
Regieoper elevates the director to an all-powerful position in creating a production, since it literally means “director’s opera.” In Regieoper, the stage director assumes a preeminent role, using his or her own concept rather than the established traditions. These ideas often veer from the composer’s or librettist’s intentions. The director’s changes may include modernizing the story to reflect contemporary political controversies, and often infuse a production with brutality, blood, and violence either for shock value, dramatic effect, or just for laughs.
The origin of Regieoper is traced to Swiss architect and staging theorist Adolphe Appia, who advocated the use of the new electric stage lighting for dramatic effect instead of just illuminating the performers. Although such ideas hardly sound comparable to the modernization now associated with Regieoper, his books on stage production—particularly of Richard Wagner’s works—encouraged impressionistic staging, which captured an integral spirit rather than realism and presentation of every detail.
At the 1951 Bayreuth Festival, Wieland Wagner, the composer’s grandson, was inspired by Appia’s ideas to create minimalist productions of his grandfather’s operas. Although Adolf Aber of The Musical Times found the impressionistic staging to be confusing, vague, and so dark that the action was barely visible, Wieland continued staging such productions throughout the 1950s and ’60s. This was the beginning of the modern Regieoper movement.
Regieoper productions run the gamut. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro” (“The Marriage of Figaro”), has been moved from a count’s Spanish mansion to a San Diego hotel. Giuseppe Verdi’s “Rigoletto” has been relocated from 16th-century Mantua to a 1960s Las Vegas casino. Mozart’s “The Abduction From the Seraglio” has been shifted from 16th-century Turkey to onboard the Paris Express in the 1920s and even to a “Star Trek” episode, starring Captain James T. (Kirk) Belmonte!
(L–R) Christiane Karg as Susanna, Rachel Willis-Sorensen as the Countess, and Serena Malfi as Cherubino in Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro,” updated to the 1930s. (Chris Lee/Metropolitan Opera)
Sometimes, in postmodern productions, the setting is not changed to just one new location and era. Instead, the elements and costumes from many cultures and periods are included. This results in a confusing hodgepodge that makes no historical sense, burying the plot in the jumble. For example, I saw a live production of George Frideric Handel’s “Giulio Cesare,” intended as a romanticized version of Julius Caesar’s political and romantic alliance with Queen Cleopatra. It was a comical potpourris of British redcoats, Bollywood dancing, 1920s flappers, Roman armor, World War II-era artillery, and enough blood to rival an R-rated film.
Cecilia Bartoli as Cleopatra in a modernized 2012 production of “Giulio Cesare,” at the Salzburg Festival. (Luigi Caputo – Salzburger Festspiele/CC BY-SA 3.0)
Werktreue: The Faithful Opera
The opposite of Regieoper is Werktreue. Literally translated as “faithfulness to the original,” this term is applied to musical productions, often opera, which consider fidelity to the creators’ intentions and notations the primary goal. Such productions give the director much less freedom and authority. Instead of adding personal interpretation and concepts to the production, the director’s job is to bring the libretto to the stage as faithfully as possible, just as the conductor endeavors to faithfully honor the score.
This approach doesn’t mean that the director’s job is easier in a Werktreue production. In fact, a truly traditional production requires more work from the director, who must conduct extensive research into the history of the work and its production to do the writers’ vision justice. It is far easier to be motivated only by one’s personal ideas and imagination.
Perhaps one reason this approach has lost favor and that operas have long been parodied is because of their soap opera-like drama. Classic opera plots contain melodramatic topics like unrequited love, indiscretion, infidelity, political intrigue, conspiracies, murder, and suicide. However, original productions depicted these topics delicately, not blatantly. Violence was implied, and amorous immorality occurred offstage.
Certainly the acting was not melodramatic. Acting was neither required nor expected of opera singers until the 20th century, before which singers would just sing. Audiences usually went to admire impressive vocalizing, beautiful music, and magnificent sets and staging. During the 18th and 19th centuries, people merely went to the opera to see and be seen, paying little attention to the performance.
Hungarian-German soprano Sylvia Geszty as Cleopatra in a traditional production of “Giulio Cesare,” from 1970 in Berlin. (Abraham Pisarek/CC BY-SA 3.0)
Regieoper or Werktreue?
Most American opera companies have embraced Regieoper trends because they need to sell tickets. Does this strategy work? By including potentially offensive content to draw younger crowds, they are likely alienating patrons who have been coming for years or even decades. It would seem more reasonable to cultivate a new audience of real opera lovers, those given the chance to learn to love operas as they were written.
There is also the question of whether the young will attend opera with added modern content. Does it really make operas more relatable or appealing? Will those needing fixes for lust and violence really turn to opera? This seems unlikely; therefore, it’s futile for opera to try to compete with movies in these areas. Instead, a new generation can learn to love opera for its own attributes.
Regieoper’s supporters argue that artists should be allowed to experiment with new ideas instead of doing the same old thing season after season. Since most operas are two or three centuries old, some directors understandably feel that they need updating. Inventive staging, newly designed costumes, and other creative ideas make familiar works new and exciting.
However, all these are possible in Werktreue productions. Rather than being rigid blueprints, traditional productions only provide guidelines. They still allow directors and designers room for creativity to explore stories; in addition, preserving the libretto’s original intentions honors those whose work is being presented.
Modernized productions not only distort classical operas but also disincline the creation of new operas in the classical form. Creative artists can instead express themselves by writing their own new works.
If opera is to continue to survive, let us hope that Werktreue productions will be reintroduced to the seasons of major opera companies. Old works still allow for great creativity, but if that’s not enough, let theater artists create new operas!
Tiffany Brannan is a 19-year-old opera singer, Hollywood history/vintage beauty copywriter, travel writer, film blogger, and ballet writer. In 2016, she and her sister founded the Pure Entertainment Preservation Society, an organization dedicated to reforming the arts by reinstating the Motion Picture Production Code.Imperial Gem lavender in full bloom at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
Lavender Festival Will Offer Lavender Chocolate-Chip Cookies and Lemonade
VACAVILLE, Calif.—A field of lavender sways as a fresh breeze passes. Busy bees hover between sticks of purple and white that protrude from a green bush, like pins on a pincushion.
At Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, many varieties of lavender are blooming as the farm’s U-pick lavender festival begins.
The owner, Alexis Koefoed, told NTD Television that she and a friend grow lavender together, naming their business Hierbas y Flores, which translates to “herbs and flowers” from Spanish.
Imperial Gem lavender in full bloom at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
“We make a lot of lavender products here at Hierbas y Flores, and it’s very common for lavender farms to sort of branch out and make added-value products,” Koefoed said. “So here we make a lavender lip balm, a lavender sugar scrub, soap; we also make sachets so people can put lavender in their clothes drawers, and their clothes smell nice.”
The flowers come in shades of purple, blue, lavender, and white. The farmers grow many varieties for different uses.
White lavender blooms at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
They planted three rows of culinary varieties for food and desserts. The taller French varieties are used to make wreaths, crafts, and other decor.
They started growing lavender roughly seven years ago and decided to open the farm up for a U-pick lavender festival three years ago.
“They will be able to come out here. We’ll show them how to pick lavender and give them a tie, and anything they can fit in this tie is what they pay for. But to come to the event is free, and parking is free,” Koefoed said.
Alexis Koefoed demonstrates how to cut lavender at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
The festival runs for two weeks, from May 29 to June 13. Patrons of the event will be able to participate in two workshops: lavender wreath-making and wand-making.
On June 12, there will be vendors, and lavender lemonade and lavender chocolate chip cookies will be for sale.
Attendees are required to register for a time slot so that they can be spaced out. A maximum capacity of 40 people on the field will allow for social distancing and a relaxing experience.
Lavender for essential oils grows at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
Koefoed says she just wants people to get a chance to get out on a quiet farm to enjoy themselves.
“People are just happy to be out here. It’s a beautiful place, and we don’t rush anybody, so it’s a chance to get out, be at an event that’s not overwhelming. There’s not thousands of people, and it’s kind of quiet, and you can still hear the birds in the trees. It just has a nice old-world feel to it. And I think people like that,” she said.
She explained that the best way to harvest lavender is to cut near the base of the plant so the stem remains long.
A bouquet of Imperial Gem lavender at Soul Food Farm in Vacaville, Calif., on May 25, 2021. (Ilene Eng/The Epoch Times)
“Then when you get home you can just decide what you want to do with it, and you would have nice long stems to make a decision if it’s a floral arrangement or you’re going to hang it upside down to dry and have dried lavender flower bouquets,” she said.
Lavender is known for having calming, stress-reducing effects that help with sleep.
It can be made into essential oil, flower water, lotion, and tea, all of which the farm sells.Mom Shares Startling Before and After Photos of Preemie With Favorite Blankie—Now Thriving
The mom of a premature baby documented her daughter’s miraculous growth, snapping photos of her next to her favorite toy and blankie.
Mary Akram, 22, was told to prepare for the worst when her daughter, Arabella, was born 13 weeks early in September 2020.
The tot weighed 2 pounds, 1 ounce (0.93 kg) at birth and spent the first 90 days of her life in an incubator and on a ventilator at The Royal Oldham Hospital while her lungs grew strong enough for her to breathe independently.
Baby Arabella in a hospital incubator as a newborn. (Caters News)
But the feisty newborn defied all odds to survive, and her parents, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, are now celebrating after doctors finally allowed them to bring her home in December.
And Arabella—who was once the size of her dad’s hand—is now huge in comparison to her favorite octopus toy and pink blanket which she was photographed next to in neonatal.
“We can’t believe the progress she’s made,” Mary said.
“We’ve got a journal showing her progress and when we look back we can’t believe she’s come such a long way from how she looked before to looking like a normal, healthy baby.
“She doesn’t look premature at all. It’s like that time never even happened, it feels like a blur.
Baby Arabella’s clothes before, and months later. (Caters News)
“When she was in hospital, we had to find clothes for a 2lb baby and now she’s in size 0–3 months. We can’t believe she was ever that tiny.
“The day we brought her home she was in the size just before newborn and we were absolutely buzzing.
“Arabella is now three times the size of the 11cm blanket we bought for her while she fought for her life in neonatal.
“We also have a toy octopus which looks tiny next to her now rather than the other way around.”
Baby Arabella next to her toy octopus and pink blankie after leaving the hospital. (Caters News)
Mary, a police officer, suspects she went into labor when she was out for a meal with soon-to-be dad Liam but says she felt no pain. When she went to the hospital for a checkup, midwives quickly realized the baby was in danger due to a membrane rupture.
“I had the healthiest pregnancy possible,” Mary said. “The midwives even said they didn’t need to see me again until I was 32 weeks because she was growing fine.
“When I was 26 weeks pregnant, I went for a meal with Liam and I felt like I’d wet myself so we both laughed and went home.
“I called the midwife just to be safe and she said I should go to hospital just in case but we didn’t really think anything of it.
“Within an hour of being there, I was filled with drugs and told I’d need to be taken to a labor ward. It all happened so fast.
“They couldn’t believe I wasn’t in any pain.”
Preemie baby Arabella. (Caters News)
They explained to her that she could give birth in the next hour, the next five hours, or the next seven days. She needed to stay at the hospital as it was important to keep Arabella in for as long as possible. Mary managed to keep her baby in for seven days.
“We thought she wasn’t going to make it,” Mary said.
“Liam wasn’t eating or sleeping but I had to stay positive because if I was stressed, the baby would be stressed and I think that’s what kept her in for seven days.
“It was weird because I was on a labor ward with women at a completely different stage to me and I didn’t even feel pregnant.”
Mary had a caesarean on Sept. 7, 2020, and Arabella was immediately taken away to an incubator where she stayed for the next three months.
Arabella beginning to thrive. (Caters News)
“When she was born, she didn’t look like a human,” the mom said. “She was so small and delicate.
“She was red raw and there were loads of specialists around her putting tubes in her.
“It was scary because it was literally life or death.
“When I first went to see her, I can’t even describe the feeling. I was broken.
“You couldn’t see what she looked like because her face was covered to protect her from the light.
“You could just see her tiny fingers and toes.
“Then when we went home without her it was horrible.
“We came home with no baby, no baby seat in the car and we just had the baby blues.”
Due to lockdown restrictions, the couple were only allowed to see their daughter for four hours a day, and when Mary and Liam were told they had to self-isolate, they were kept away from Arabella for two weeks.
Arabella after leaving the hospital. (Caters News)
The tot fought off three sepsis infections and put on a whole 8 pounds (3.6 kg) before doctors deemed her fit enough to head home.
“It was the worst three months of my life,” said Mary.
“It was horrible when she was in the hospital because were allowed four hours at a time with her but sometimes when we got there, she’d already been fed and that would mean we couldn’t hold her because she needed to rest.
“We were told we had to isolate for two weeks because we could have been in contact with someone who had COVID and being away from her for that long was horrendous.
“We were scared to hold her, we were told that if we touched her, we couldn’t slide or rub or anything because she was so delicate and it would be painful for her.
“She had some really bad days and she got sepsis three times but she just kept fighting it off.”
Now weighing a healthy 10 pounds (4.5 kg), Arabella is thriving and finally able to fit into her newborn babygros.
Adds Mary, “When she grows into anything it feels like a massive milestone and I feel really emotional.
“We are so pleased that we have the neonatal photos to look back on as she has grown so much since then.
“She’s such a character, she’s starting to smile.”
Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterHoping to Save Endangered Heritage Crafts in the UK
The Heritage Crafts Association Red List of Endangered Crafts 2021
What does the making of glass eyes, ballet pointe shoes, and mouth-blown sheet glass have in common? They are three of twenty heritage crafts that have been newly classified as “critically endangered” in the UK, a classification which means that those craft skills could disappear in a generation.
On May 24, a total of 130 “endangered” and “critically endangered” heritage crafts were announced, when an updated version of the 2019 “HCA Red List of Endangered Crafts” was published. The 2021 list is the third edition published by The Heritage Crafts Association (HCA). And this year, The Pilgrims Trust funded the research.
The HCA is an independent UK charity set up by craftspeople and supporters of crafts as a direct response to a perceived lack of recognition and support for traditional craftsmanship in the UK.
“When we were set up in 2009, one of the things that we were so concerned about was to make sure that heritage crafts skills are passed on. They have been passed on through and down the generations to us and we are, our generation, the guardians of these crafts skills,” HCA Chair Patricia Lovett said at the press launch, hosted on Zoom.
Compass making is newly classified as a “critically endangered” craft in the UK. Yorkshire-based B. Cooke & Son Ltd. continues to make compasses by hand. (Glen Milner/B. Cooke & Son Ltd)
Challenges for Heritage Crafts
The research paints a complicated picture of heritage crafts practiced in the UK, which is hard to put into a coherent narrative, HCA operations director Daniel Carpenter said, at the Zoom event.
What is clear is that the research brings a greater awareness of the types of crafts practiced in the UK and the specific challenges that each craft skill faces to survive.
Interestingly, while the pandemic undoubtedly has put many craftspeople under considerable pressure, anecdotal signs suggest that the crisis has accelerated changes in society that could benefit heritage crafts, Carpenter said. For instance, people have been reevaluating the world of work and are looking for more fulfilling ways to earn a living. People are also choosing to support more local businesses. The heritage crafts industry also had to create new sources of revenue due to the UK lockdowns and the loss of traditional sources of income, and so online marketing, such as the number of online tutorials showing crafts, increased.
But sadly, the stress of running a business during a pandemic has also meant that some skilled craftspeople decided to take early retirement.
Some challenges are consistent across the board: Certain crafts have skilled makers who are approaching retirement and no one is interested in learning the craft. Additionally, the maker has little time or funding to pass on the craft skills to an apprentice. But the HCA is hopeful that there will be future funding for apprenticeships. The association is currently in talks with the Department for Education and the Institute of Apprenticeships & Technical Education.
The HCA’s Endangered Crafts manager, Mary Lewis, who researched and compiled this year’s list, emphasized that while some obstacles facing crafts require funding or policy change, change can also come from the craftspeople themselves. “One of the things I’ve learned while working with makers is that they have the best ideas about how to preserve their crafts. It’s for this reason that we make sure we have makers represented at every level in our organization,” she said, also at the press event on Zoom.
The Makers
The new Red List is a rich tapestry of heritage crafts practiced in the UK. “Heritage crafts are not just dusty old handcrafted relics. And this [list] is not a bow to a misty-eyed vision of the past. This is about a wide variety of skilled people working today to create high-quality, beautiful, functional items that add value to our lives,” Lewis said.
The number of people focusing their energies on preserving and protecting these specialist skills is on the increase, she explained. For example, Devon stave basket making was virtually extinct when it was put on the Red List. But Lewis is happy to say that there are now five professional makers, another in training, and some courses on the craft’s skill. “These are small gains, but they’re significant,” she said.
Some heritage crafts may sound familiar, such as hat making, which is one of the newly endangered crafts. But some of the niche craft skills within that category are lesser-known. For instance, have you heard of bowed felt hats?
View this post on Instagram A post shared by The Crafty Beggars (@thecrafty_beggars)
Rachel Frost makes bowed felt hats and uses a seven-foot-long bow to prepare the fibers for felting. She described, on the Zoom event, how a bow is used to separate and fluff the wool fibers: “There’s a gut string stretched along its length that when plucked with a wooden pin vibrates, and the vibration picks up the fibers and sends them flying magically across the table to land in a pile on the other end of the table.” The fluffy fibers are then ready for the felting stage, which is done over a wood-burning stove with steam, hot water, and lots and lots of manipulation.
Strikingly, diamond cutting is now critically endangered, with less than 10 skilled diamond cutters in the UK, largely due to competition from overseas diamond cutters, Lewis said.
Kilt making is newly classified as an “endangered craft” in the UK. Kilt maker Amanda Moffet hand-sews a kilt at The Kiltmakery in Edinburgh, Scotland. (The Kiltmakery & ScotClans)
Kilt making is now classified as an endangered craft. Makers of handsewn kilts are particularly hard hit due to companies producing machine-made kilts. But handsewn kilt makers have come to work together at The Kiltmakery & ScotClans in Edinburgh, Scotland, sometimes for overseas clients. “We’ve got a very large order from Florida for a huge band, and they’re really interested in explaining the story [of how the kilts were made] to their students and the kids in the band. So we’re able to actually make 200 handsewn kilts,” kilt maker Amanda Moffet said at the same press launch.
To find out more about The Heritage Crafts Association and the “HCA Red List of Endangered Crafts,” visit RedList.HeritageCrafts.org.uk
Kilt makers work together at The Kiltmakery in Edinburgh, Scotland. (The Kiltmakery & ScotClans)Convenience Store Owner Finds Discarded $1 Million Lottery Ticket, Returns It to Customer
A family-owned convenience store in Southwick, Massachusetts, recently returned a $1 million winning lottery ticket to a customer who’d unwittingly discarded it.
The customer, a frequent patron of Lucky Stop convenience store, had bought the ticket from Aruna Shah, the store owner’s wife. But the customer handed it back to be tossed out, assuming it was just another bust.
(L-R) Abhi Shah with his parents, Aruna and Maunish Shah, who own Lucky Stop. (Courtesy of Abhi Shah)
Ten days later, Abhi Shah, the owner’s son, went through the discarded tickets in the trash bin and noticed that the card had not been scratched.
“I scratched the number and it was one million dollars underneath the ticket,” Abhi told WWLP. Upon realizing the customer’s mistake, Abhi found himself on the fence, unable to decide whether to keep the winnings or return the ticket to the customer.
“I mean, I had one million dollars in my hand, and on the other hand I wanted to do something good,” Abhi admitted to the station.
Lucky Stop in Southwick, Massachusetts. (Screenshot/Google Maps)
Uncertain, he consulted his parents in making the tough choice. They sat down and deliberated on what to do—not an easy decision with so much money.
“We didn’t sleep two nights,” said Maunish Shah, owner of Lucky Stop.
Still unresolved, Abhi decided to consult his grandparents in India.
“He called my mom, grandparents in India, they said give it back we don’t want that money,” Maunish said.
Lea Rose Fiega with her $1 million lottery winnings. (Courtesy of the Massachusetts State Lottery)
The family, following the advice of their elders, handed the ticket back to customer Lea Rose Fiega when she returned to the store.
When she was handed the ticket worth $1 million, she was in shock.
“As soon as she came in, I hand her 1 million dollar ticket and she freaked out and cried like a baby,” Abhi said. “She sat down on the floor right here.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter5 Tricks to Organize Your Home Like a Boutique Hotel
What makes a hotel stay feel luxurious is often the simplest of things: fluffy towels, clean sheets, and mini toiletries—there whenever you need them. Do you want to recreate that same sense of indulgence in your own space? Use these organizational ideas to give your home the five-star treatment.
Restock and Refresh Your Bath Towels
You probably need more fluffy, white bath towels. To achieve hotel-level luxury, invest in three-to-four towels per person. Hotels typically stock white towels because they can be bleached, and because they will always look clean and never mildew. Plus, they can all be washed together in one load of laundry.
The surefire way to make a weeknight shower feel more spa-like? Buy a warmer that will make your towel toasty in less than 20 minutes.
Create a Hotel-Worthy Bed
Consider investing in a couple more sets of sheets. Think about it this way: If you currently rotate between the set on your bed and the set in the wash, you either have to do laundry often or go awhile between washes. The solution: Buy more spare sheets so you can have clean bedding without doing so much laundry.
Take another tip from boutique hotels and keep a cozy spare blanket on hand, either draping it across the end of your bed or tucking it into a basket nearby.
Clean Out the Linen Closet
If you have space in your bathroom, embrace the hotel vibe by leaving a big pile of fluffy towels on display. If not, it’s time for a linen closet clean-out. Donate or recycle old towels and sheets you no longer use. Then, label shelves for bath towels and others for bed sheets in specific sizes.
For a truly five-star feel, keep a bottle of scented fabric spray in your linen closet so you can lightly spritz sheets before making the bed.
Clear Your Nightstand
So what’s the easiest way to make your bedroom feel hotel-worthy in the next 15 minutes? Declutter your nightstand. Remove any bedside reading you aren’t working on right now, and leave space for a glass of water and a soft lamp.
If you can’t resist keeping your phone near the bed, invest in a sleek, wireless charger so at least you won’t have to hunt for lost cords every night.
Declutter the Bathroom Counter
In a hotel bathroom, you’ll often find a small, curated selection of toiletries set on a tray. Try the same trick at home. Arrange a storage tray using only the skin care and hair care products you use every single day. The rest can be stashed in drawers, cabinets, or storage bins.
If you forget to pack a toothbrush, most hotels have extras they can drop off at your room. For the same effect at home, stock one drawer in your bathroom with spare toothbrushes, a new tube of toothpaste, soaps, and other essentials. You’ll always have what you need, without having to call the concierge.
Katie Holdefehr is a senior editor at RealSimple.com. Real Simple magazine provides smart, realistic solutions to everyday challenges. RealSimple.com. Copyright 2021 Meredith Corporation. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.Safari-Goer Spots Incredibly Rare Melanistic Serval Wildcat, and the Photos Are Amazing
One of the world’s most elusive species of wildcat with a rare genetic trait has been snapped by a lucky photographer at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro.
Brahmanand Kori, 21, was able to photograph the melanistic serval while visiting Amboseli National Park in Kenya earlier this month.
A wild serval with a rare genetic trait is shown with Mount Kilimanjaro in the background. (Caters News)
The black serval walked onto a road, presenting Kori with a perfect photo opportunity. (Caters News)
Melanism is a trait in animals characterized by an excess of the dark pigment melanin which causes animals’ fur and skin to appear darker.
The photographer captured incredible moments of his encounter with the serval—including the wildcat gingerly crossing through the grass with the snowy peaks of the dormant volcano as a backdrop; and a shot of the serval peaking through the grass, directly at the camera lens, despite their usual shyness.
It is extremely rare to encounter serval cats in the wild due to their small size and ability to blend into their habitat.
The rare wildcat looked into the camera as Kori snapped photos. (Caters News)
The serval eventually returned into the tall grass. (Caters News)
For Kori to have captured on camera one of the wildcats with the dark melanistic trait is all the more incredible, as there’s only a 25 percent chance that a serval might inherit the trait from parents that both carry the recessive gene.
The wildlife photographer’s hands even started to shake with excitement when he first saw the serval in the park, hardly believing his luck after his sister—whom he was traveling with—spotted a pair of tiny black ears.
The photographer called the moment “a scene I’ll never forget.” (Caters News)
“In a few minutes she came out and was walking towards the road,” Kori said. “It was the perfect opportunity to get a clear shot. The serval then went on to the other side of the road.
“After following her for some more time she gave us a clear view of her in the open and even looked straight at my lens. All that time we spent with the serval was in the presence of the mighty Mount Kilimanjaro in the backdrop.
“Finally, the serval started walking to the left of us and behind her was the mighty Kilimanjaro. It’s a scene I’ll never forget.”
The melanistic serval peers at the camera through the tall grass. (Caters News)
Kori said he feels “lucky and blessed” to have been able to photograph the very rare cat. (Caters News)
Eventually, the beautiful serval returned to the tall grass, popping its head up at times, then looking at the photographer’s lens one last time before departing for good.
It was an incredible experience for Kori, who at one point got as close as 30 feet (10 meters) to the serval and got to spend 20 minutes documenting the wonderful moment.
When asked how he felt afterwards, Kori said: “I always want to experience a new challenge. I’d never imagined that I’d get a chance to photograph one of the rarest cats in the world. The most incredible element of a safari is ‘luck.’
“I feel incredibly lucky and blessed after I got to see and photograph this very rare cat.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterSummer, Shakespeare, Mendelssohn, and Weddings
Two works of art in the same medium can often be connected like pearls on a string, one leading to the creation of another, and then another. However, just as often, several works of art in different media can be interconnected in something more like a three-dimensional nexus. That can be fascinating to explore from any direction, whether starting with music, drama, dance, or even culture generally. I came across such a labyrinth recently when revisiting “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” in its various incarnations.
The question had arisen in casual conversation about the changing seasons, in regard to a cold spell that came through and threatened our newly planted garden. “When will summer finally begin?” I asked my wife in frustration. “And, by the way, when is ‘midsummer’? You know, like in Shakespeare? And why did he choose that as a title?”
To that, always a step ahead of me, she characteristically non-replied, “O, put on the Mendelssohn!” Composer Felix Mendelssohn (1809–1847) had written both a precocious overture to Shakespeare’s play in 1826 (Opus 21), when he was only 17, and then incidental music for the play 16 years later, which incorporated the earlier overture at the beginning (Opus 61).
I discovered that there is, in fact, a particular day called “midsummer,” traditionally June 24, in celebration of the summer solstice, a holiday that predates Christianity. (In some years, the solstice can vary slightly from that date.)
In northern countries, there is also an ancient note of magic about the day. In Sweden, it is a huge national holiday, with special foods and dancing around a pole. In Britain, there is dancing and drumming at the site of Stonehenge. It is a day when Shakespeare’s fairies and other magical creatures might indeed be expected to play a dreamlike role, hence his title.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream (Shakespeare, Act 4, Scene 1).” Engraving by Samuel Cousins after a painting by Sir Edwin Henry Landseer. Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Public Domain)
Music and a Play Become a Ballet and a Wedding Tradition
Shakespeare’s story and Mendelssohn’s music found a natural intersection in dance. It so happens that the very first, original, full-length ballet choreographed by George Balanchine (1904–1983) was given its premiere by the New York City Ballet on Jan. 17, 1962, to Mendelssohn’s music and Shakespeare’s story.
Although Balanchine is widely known as a father of contemporary ballet, this work is choreographed quite elegantly and beautifully in the relatively traditional neoclassical style. Neoclassical ballet, invoking the simplicity of an ancient Greek look, retains the beautiful traditional music and the moves of Romantic ballet but sheds the grandiose sets and costumes in favor of clearer visuals so that one can really see the dancers’ arms and legs in motion. Balanchine’s version of the Mendelssohn remains a classic.
Another notable feature of Mendelssohn’s 1842 suite of incidental music for the play was his addition of his famous “Wedding March,” which has since been used for the bride’s entry procession at countless weddings, perhaps even for the weddings of many people reading this. How did that come about?
It seems that Queen Victoria originated several traditions that were borrowed by the people of England and eventually made their way to the United States and other countries. For example, she and her husband, Prince Albert, began putting up a Christmas tree inside their palace, a practice that he had grown up with in Germany but which was not the custom in England. Soon enough, most people in England had a tree at Christmas, and thus so do we.
Before Queen Victoria’s wedding, bridal gowns were not typically white—you guessed it—until she was married in a white gown. But in this case, it was her eldest daughter, Princess Victoria Mary Louise, who influenced the wedding customs. She was a fan of Mendelssohn’s music and set the example of using his “Wedding March” at her 1858 wedding to Prince William of Prussia.
That music was known to have been used at a wedding just once before, by Dorothy Carew and Tom Daniel in Tiverton, England, in 1847, but it was not until the princess used it that it came into vogue. In fact, having a procession up and down the aisle itself was an innovation at her wedding.
Queen Victoria began the tradition of the white wedding gown with her marriage to Prince Albert, but it was their daughter Princess Victoria Mary Louise who first set the example of using Mendelssohn’s “Wedding March.” Queen Victoria and Prince Albert after their wedding service at St James’s Palace in London. Engraved by S. Reynolds after F. Lock. (Public Domain)
Tradition Lives On, But Barely
From this line of inquiry, and having not been to a wedding lately, I naturally wondered whether people are still marrying in June and still using the wedding march. It appears that the midsummer month of June (whether due to Shakespeare or to the weather) is still the most popular month of the year in which to marry, with, according to The Inspired Bride blog, 10.8 percent of all weddings taking place that month, but it is closely followed by August, May, and July.
Mendelssohn’s wedding piece, and also Richard Wagner’s wedding march (popularly known as “Here Comes the Bride”) from his opera “Lohengrin” can still be heard at a few weddings, but some religious traditions have shunned them both, due to the pagan weddings in the Shakespeare play or the ultimately tragic fate of the couple in Wagner’s opera. Also, many couples are getting married in parks and other outdoor venues, where there are no organs or ensembles to produce the big sound ideal for those traditional wedding pieces.
Sheet music for Mendelssohn’s “Wedding March.” Illustration shows 1790s-era French bride and groom on their wedding day. Lithograph by Bufford, John H. & Sons; published by Oliver Ditson & Co. in 1888. (Boston Public Library/CC BY 2.0)
Instead, one hears all sorts of popular songs. Searching for the “top wedding songs” online produces no consensus whatsoever, but a whole range of popular hits, from Etta James, to Elvis, to Shania Twain, to Adele.
But as it turns out, according to Pew Research, only about half of couples marry at all now; the other half choose cohabitation. However, we like to think that traditions in decline, be they musical or marriage itself, can return and flourish once more with a new generation.
In any case, I have now traveled through this network of connections and hope to return again, full circle, to Shakespeare’s play, but to return even more often to the charming flutter of fairy wings produced by the violins after the opening five chords that begin both versions of Mendelssohn’s music for the play.
American composer Michael Kurek is the composer of the Billboard No. 1 classical album “The Sea Knows.” The winner of numerous composition awards, including the prestigious Academy Award in Music from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, he has served on the Nominations Committee of the Recording Academy for the classical Grammy Awards. He is a professor emeritus of composition at Vanderbilt University. For more information and music, visit MichaelKurek.com2 College Students Meet by Chance on Bus, Discover They Once Lived in Same Orphanage in China
A pair of Virginia college students thought they were strangers when they found themselves sitting beside each other on a campus bus.
But after striking up a casual conversation, they found they had some incredible things in common: they were both adopted, and both came from the same orphanage—in China.
The two students say their meeting was nothing short of God’s will.
It was Ally Cole, 21, who filled the empty seat beside Ruby Wierzbicki, 19, back in April. They swapped profiles of their hometowns—Ally is from Maryland and Ruby, New Jersey.
Ally Cole (L) and Ruby Wierzbicki. (Courtesy of Ruby Wierzbicki and Ally Cole)
Then they learned they’d both been adopted from China to the United States. In a country of 1.44 billion people, the chances of them coming from the same place are practically nil.
But they had. Both had been born in the city of Jinan.
Moreover, the chances of them meeting on a swarming college campus—Liberty University, in Lynchburg, Virginia—were even slimmer. Yet, scrolling for photos, the pair held their devices side by side and found proof.
“We realized that everything matched, and we knew that it had to be the same place,” Ruby told Liberty’s news outlet. It turns out, they’d been adopted just a week apart, from the Jinan Social Welfare Institute 15 years ago. Ally was 6 at the time, while Ruby was 4.
(Left) A photo shows Ruby (L) and Ally (R) together as children. (Courtesy of Ruby Wierzbicki and Ally Cole); (Right) Ally (L) and Ruby. (Courtesy of Ally Cole)
They stepped off the campus bus and delved deeper into the incredible coincidence; the students even found photos of themselves standing next to each other, neither knowing who the other girl was at the time.
“Ruby had a lot of photos of me that I’d never seen before and photos where we were together,” said Ally. “We even had a mutual friend from the orphanage, Emma, that we each had photos with.”
Ruby said the pair were in shock.
(Left) Ruby in China; (Right) Ally at the same orphanage. (Courtesy of Ruby Wierzbicki and Ally Cole)
Ally concurred, “I think I was just in shock that I actually knew someone from my past. I think it didn’t really hit me until after I went to class.”
The 21-year-old had already made peace with the blank space of her past, but embraced filling in some of the missing pieces with her new friend Ruby, calling the opportunity a blessing.
Both students had also chosen other colleges initially before falling in love with Liberty, a private evangelical Christian university, during a College For A Weekend tour. Ruby studies exercise science; meanwhile, Ally studies graphic design.
“God really does have our lives according to His plan and in His control,” Ruby reflected.
(Left) (Courtesy of Liberty University); (Right) Ruby (R) and Ally reunited years later in the U.S. (Courtesy of Ally Cole)
“There are people I’ve talked to about this and they’ve said, ‘What a coincidence,’” she continued. “But we think that this is 100 percent God.
“There’s no way that two people who were in the same orphanage in a different country can somehow end up at the same school at the same time, and have it not be God.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterDetermined California Deputy Revives 10-Day-Old ‘Lifeless’ Baby Who Choked on Formula
A California sheriff’s deputy ended up saving a 10-day-old baby girl’s life after he responded to a medical emergency at a home in Rancho Cucamonga. The baby had finished drinking formula when she gagged and suddenly stopped breathing.
“We tried to get it out,” Glen Wood, father to twin baby girls Victoria and Abigail, told CBSLA. “We suctioned it out, and still [Victoria] wasn’t breathing properly.”
Panicked, Wood dialed 911 on the evening of April 29, and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s deputy, Joshua Kelly, responded.
“He was the first to arrive at the home and was still unsure of what the actual emergency was,” Rancho Cucamonga Police later described on Facebook. “He hurried inside the home to assess the situation and a young woman, who was a caretaker for the family, handed Deputy Kelly a 10-day-old baby girl.”
Victoria wasn’t breathing and her lips were turning blue. A parent himself, Kelly stepped in but recalls the twins’ father looking at him with uncertainty.
Kelly flipped Victoria over his forearm, face down, and began performing back thrusts. Yet 30 seconds in, she still wasn’t breathing. The deputy then launched into two rounds of infant chest compressions.
“After about a minute and a half, the baby’s arms just dropped and went lifeless,” Kelly said. “I thought for sure … we lost the baby.”
Kelly with the twins’ father, Glen Wood, and the rest of the family. (Courtesy of San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department)
Despite his fears, Kelly didn’t give up and continued with chest compressions. Three minutes in, Victoria spat out the formula and took her first breath. The room then inhaled a collective gasp of relief as Victoria started taking small breaths.
“It’s almost like in that three minutes I made a connection with that baby,” said Kelly. Victoria was taken to hospital and later released with a clean bill of health.
The twins’ doting dad lost his own father before he was born, and has always dreamed of being the father he never had. He decided to share this story after Kelly saved his baby girl, wanting the public to know about the heroic deputy’s deed.
“He really had his heart in it,” Wood praised. “I’m just eternally grateful.”
Protecting baby Victoria was a no-brainer for Kelly, who claimed that some people are privy to the spectrum of tasks that officers perform, and some are not.
“It’s not just arresting people,” he impressed. “There’s a lot more to it.”
Kelly reunited with the grateful family in May to meet Victoria and Abigail under more relaxed circumstances. The family called him their “angel.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterMom of Boy With Special Needs Responds to Stranger Telling Her Child, to ‘Just Keep Walking’
After passing a curious child at the supermarket, Melissa Schlemmer, a mom of three, was dismayed to hear the child’s mother subdue her curiosity and interest in learning of Melissa’s 8-year-old son, Christopher, who has special needs and is a wheelchair user.
Melissa’s older son, Alexander, was pushing his brother around the store with gusto, grabbing a pineapple and plums from the produce aisle, while a little girl watched Christopher closely and said: “Mom, that looks like a wheelchair.”
Her mother’s instruction to her daughter of “Shhhh… just keep walking,” left Melissa reeling.
The mom hurried both her kids away, leaving Melissa with the fallout: sadness, indignation, and confusion.
In retrospect, Melissa said she wished she would have said that it’s okay to be curious, it’s great to ask questions, and it’s fine if the little girl talks to Christopher herself. In fact, she’s invited.
“He’s a little boy, just like your little boy,” Melissa explained. “He’s sweet and charming with the most adorable grin. He loves books and swinging at the park.”
Melissa believes that in telling a child to just keep walking, a parent is teaching them to ignore someone with a visible difference. “You taught her not to see my son,” Melissa said.
Melissa from Forest Lake, Minnesota, had a blissfully uneventful second pregnancy but began to worry about baby Christopher—who was born on April 20, 2013—when his eyes crossed sporadically, he appeared weak, and he failed to gain weight.
The little boy, who had “failure to thrive,” was then sent for a sedated MRI. At just a few months old, Christopher was diagnosed with a metabolic disorder, PMM2 Congenital Disorder of Glycosylation.
Christopher’s neurologist urged Melissa not to Google it.
“Like many disorders, the range of severity is vast,” Melissa said. “It was hard for [the neurologist] to predict what his life would be like. She told us to allow him to tell his own story, but we knew the likelihood of a feeding tube, seizures, a wheelchair, more therapies, and many more specialists would be added to his life.”
However, instead of choosing “flight,” Melissa chose to fight hard for her baby boy.
“I wanted to fight for him to be the best he could be, whatever it meant,” Melissa said. “That doesn’t mean I didn’t mourn the loss of the life we planned for him. I did. I cried.”
Upon seeing other children of Christopher’s age achieve their milestones, Melissa would envision her son being able to do all those things, and tear up. The loving mom quit her job to care for her son full time so that she could take him to the many specialists and therapy appointments.
Having a medically fragile child has surely changed Melissa and her family’s perspectives on life completely. While caring for her son is “exhausting and lonely,” Melissa claims she didn’t know gratitude until he came along.
At the age of 8, Christopher cannot speak or walk and uses a wheelchair. He has been fed through a G-J tube for over five years now and has vision and hearing disorders. He has suffered several life-threatening seizures through his short course of life. Yet he’s happy, said Melissa. He uses a bespoke communication device, he’s cheeky, hardworking, and loves to read. He has also begun to explore standing and walking with the help of a frame.
Melissa continues documenting Christopher’s journey on Instagram.
Considering the parents of able-bodied children, Melissa claims to understand their hesitation. “I can empathize with being worried about saying something offensive,” she shared. “There are far too many lists of, ‘Don’t ask this, don’t ask that,’ when it comes to talking to a parent of a child with a disability.”
However, if parents can be brave enough to ask the taboo questions with a genuine desire to learn, Melissa added, then she will extend grace and help educate on how to accept, love, and include disabled people.
“Please, help your kids make sense of it all, because if you don’t, who will?” Melissa implored. “I need them to understand because they’ll be the change makers in this world for my son.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter"There is no time like the present for making preparations regardless of age or health status," says Dr. Pamela Prince Pyle. (Max play/Shutterstock)
On Living and Dying: Advice From a Doctor Who Deals With Terminally Ill Patients
Learning to live with the inevitable in a post-COVID world
The COVID-19 pandemic may finally be slowing, but it has shone a stark light on one human problem that we’ll never escape. One day, books analyzing the pandemic will fill whole rows in libraries, but no analysis can dim the glaring human condition that we must face—the fact that we’re all going to die.
A patient dying from ALS said it best, “No one makes it out alive.”
Many of us have thought more about death this past year than ever before. Psychologist Ronnie Janoff-Bulman says, “Once you know that catastrophe dwells next door and can strike anyone at any time, you interpret reality differently.” As we reinterpret the reality of today in light of our future death, let us take a hard look at just exactly how we’re going to let loose of this earth.
As a doctor who deals with terminally ill patients, I know four things are true:
1. Most of us assume we are going to live to a ripe old age.
However, no one is guaranteed tomorrow. There is no time like the present for making preparations, regardless of age or health status. It can provide a surprising comfort to think through and write out your final wishes. Many online resources are available to guide you through the process. We plan for many life events with intensity, such as births, marriages, anniversaries, and birthdays. It’s valuable to plan for our final crucial time of life—and it is still life. In truth, I have seen so many living their best life once given a terminal diagnosis.
2. Those who wait until they get a grim prognosis to start pondering these matters often find the process more difficult.
It is challenging to have end-of-life discussions in times of crisis when everyone’s emotions are more volatile. I’ve been witness to so many families under stress becoming divided when opinions differ on what should be done as decision trees are presented by the medical team. In critical situations, if preparations have been done, families can focus more fully on the care and love of the patient rather than wondering what the patient would want.
3. Conversations about death and dying make most people uncomfortable. Even though the conversation itself doesn’t increase our chances of dying, just having it can make us fearful or sad. But contemplating end-of-life issues within our control is not morbid—it’s wise. Take two real-life examples.
The first was my friend Lani. When she learned that she had less than two years to live, she fought hard, mostly for her family. I was amazed to learn that two years earlier, she had cleaned out her closets and attic. “Get rid of that stuff,” she told me personally. “Your kids won’t want it.” She had prepared, so she was able to spend her last months enjoying life and enjoying her family. I remember her bedroom in her home as being a beautiful place of quiet and peace. That’s where she passed away, surrounded by her big family.
The other example is a man named Ralph. He was far from an ideal father or husband. A robust man, he didn’t seem anywhere near death, but a massive stroke brought him to the brink. Ironically, this father who had never done much for his family had prepared for his death by completing an online $5 directive known as “Five Wishes.” In his final months, as his children ministered to his needs according to his written directives, they got to know a dad who was vulnerable, and in his vulnerability, he became lovable. The last gift he gave his children—his planning—was the best gift he ever gave his children. And the last months of his life were the best months of his life.
People ask me how to talk about death with younger children. A recent article in Parents Magazine emphasized the importance of talking with our children about death, even when they’re young, to avoid confusing and often terrifying feelings. I still remember how terrified I was as a child when I watched the animated film “Bambi” and—spoiler alert—the death of Bambi’s mother. My grandson was terrified in “The Lion King” when—spoiler alert—death claimed Mufasa.
The reality is that most kids’ movies feature dying or death as a prominent theme. We need to talk openly with our children about those sad and scary scenes, listening more than we talk.
4. Most faith traditions offer spiritual (and even non-spiritual) guidance to their adherents who are dying and to those who love them.
The Jewish faith, for example, has rituals that take into account the theological, practical, and emotional needs of the terminal patient. The rightness or wrongness of our beliefs will become evident after death, but the preparation that precedes that last breath is valuable and integral to the dying process. Those who do not prepare seem to suffer more. Families that are left to deal with an unexpected, sudden death seem to suffer the most.
Once we’re comfortable with the concept of our own death and make a plan for how we’re going to die, we can join with those who make light of this inescapable human condition. We can laugh with Jerry Seinfeld who says, “Make no mistake about why these babies are here—they are here to replace us.” And we will leave earth with the confidence that we’re not burdening those babies, but actually blessing our families.
Dr. Pamela Prince Pyle has practiced hospital-based medicine in the U.S. since 1992 and on mission since 2009 with Africa New Life Ministries in Rwanda. She is the author of “A Good Death: Learning to Live Like You Were Dying.”Film Review of ‘A Quiet Place Part II’: Lightning Strikes Twice for Filmmaker John Krasinski
PG-13 | 1h 37min | Action, Drama, Sci-Fi, Horror, Thriller | 28 May 2021 (USA)
When released in April of 2018, “A Quiet Place” came with no high commercial or critical expectations. The studio (Paramount) was reasonably sure it could recoup the modest $20 million budget, yet didn’t screen it for the press until the Wednesday prior to opening day—a time too late for many daily newspapers to cover it.
What Paramount hadn’t counted on was the almost universal critical acclaim (96 percent) and the taking in of over $50 million at the box office on the first weekend (and an eventual worldwide total of nearly $341 million). It was clear this movie carried with it appeal beyond the usual horror demographic, mostly because it’s not really a horror movie, but more of high-wire, sci-fi thriller. Before the close of the second weekend, Paramount ordered a follow-up.
Originally scheduled for release in March 2020, “A Quiet Place Part II” was— like many films from last year—postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For the throngs of “AQP” fans this was a bit of a bummer, but they’ll be happy to hear the wait was more than worth it. This movie is among the finest sequels ever produced.
Instead of reteaming with co-writers Bryan Woods and Scott Beck from the first installment, returning director John Krasinski is the sole scribe for “Part II” which, for the most part, worked out very well. If there was anything to find fault with here, it would be the redoing of a big plot twist from “AQP” and another open-ended concluding scene. A second sequel is all but a lock, which in all likelihood will be without Krasinski’s participation.
Both a Prequel and a Sequel
Rather than immediately picking up where “AQP” left off, Krasinski ingenuously includes a pre-opening-credits short film-length prequel that addresses the harrowing events that led to what took place throughout the first installment. It is a throttling introductory salvo to a production which ups the emotional ante with each successive scene.
When it becomes clear staying in their home is no longer an option, mother Evelyn (Krasinski’s off-screen wife Emily Blunt), daughter Regan (Millicent Simmons), her younger brother Marcus (Noah Jupe), and an unnamed infant flee. With firearms and electronic equipment in tow, they follow the same sound-reducing, sand-laden paths which eventually lead them to what looks like an old foundry. Before they even reach their destination, Krasinski hints—through a rifle crosshairs perspective—that there might be a new, unseen, far-more direct threat.
The close of the first act finds Krasinski presenting his most interesting narrative gamble. For the duration of “AQP,” the Evelyn character is the principal lead, yet here, in her stead, is Millicent. A deaf performer, Simmons was an ideal choice to play Millicent (as the plot is heavily based on sound or lack thereof) and she was (properly) regulated to a supporting role in the first installment.
In “Part II,” Blunt and Simmons are given different amounts of screen time with the latter becoming the effective overall lead. Assuming chores previously performed by her father Lee (Krasinski) in “AQP,” Millicent instantly becomes the intellectual and emotional core of the story, and the movie is all the better for it.
Deaf performer Millicent Simmons is actually the lead of “A Quiet Place Part II.” (Paramount Pictures)
Without even trying to be politically correct, Krasinski charges a hearing-impaired juvenile female with becoming the lead in a family-centric, action-adventure thriller with scary monsters on the side.
These monsters—who cannot see or smell (or as it turns out, swim)—play a bigger part in “Part II” than they did in “AQP,” and to Krasinski’s immense credit, he resists the urge (and/or commercial demands) by not piling on too much monster inclusion. They serve their purpose without wearing out their welcome while still retaining their considerable menace.
From Thriller to Family-Centric Drama
It might be beyond obvious, but if you haven’t already seen “AQP,” watching “Part II” first will not only leave you confused, but also perhaps angry and frustrated. This is NOT a standalone film (and in Krasinski’s defense, that is neither a good nor a bad thing). Do yourself a huge favor, rent “AQP” on any of the seven on-demand platforms starting at just $2.99.
“Part II” isn’t just another horror-thriller sequel. It’s taking an original concept and expanding on it, rather than just recycling what came before, and it joins an elite club that includes “The Godfather Part II,” “Terminator 2,” “Aliens,” and “Blade Runner 2049.” It’s not lazy, cash-in filmmaking; it extends into the unlikely territory of uplifting, family-based drama.
Lightning rarely strikes twice in the same place physically and even less frequently artistically. In retrospect, after watching both movies, Krasinski was clearly thinking long-term with these two projects. The challenge of presenting two long form stories such as these with so little dialogue was no mean feat. Krasinki was also smart to demure on being directly involved in a third installment. That’s the sign of a true artist.
Director John Krasinski scores another success with one of the best sequels ever produced. (Paramount Pictures)
It will be interesting to see what Krasinski does next. He’s young enough to remain a viable leading man in virtually anything and experienced enough to tackle new genres while acting, writing, and directing. He could become the next Clint Eastwood. Or the next John Carpenter. Or maybe even the next Orson Welles. Or he could just stick with being John Krasinski and hopefully follow his own, distinct path. That would be awesome.
‘A Quiet Place Part II’
Director: John Krasinski
Stars: Emily Blunt, Millicent Simmons, Cillian Murphy, Noah Jupe, Djimon Hounsou
Running Time: 1 hour, 37 minutes
Rating: PG-13
Release Date: May 28
Rating: 4.5 out of 5
Originally from Washington, D.C., Michael Clark has written for over 30 local and national film industry media outlets and is based in the Atlanta Top 10 media marketplace. He co-founded the Atlanta Film Critics Circle in 2017 and is a regular contributor to the Shannon Burke Show on floridamanradio.com. Since 1995, Mr. Clark has written over 4,000 movie reviews and film-related articles.7 Unexpected (Yet Totally Delicious) Ways to Make Potato Salad Without Mayo
It’s hard to beat a classic potato salad made with creamy mayonnaise. But good news for the mayo-averse: The winning combination of potatoes and mayo isn’t where this backyard barbecue favorite ends.
There are a number of condiments that work equally well as a potato salad dressing—so whether you’re in need of a mayo substitute or you’re simply in the mood to bring something different to the party this year, you’ve got plenty of options.
Tahini
The sesame paste most commonly used to make hummus not only lends creaminess to potato salad, but also adds nutty, toasted flavor. It’s sure to have people guessing what the secret ingredient in your salad is.
Pesto
Stir pesto into most things and it will be better—and that definitely includes potato salad. Pick up your favorite store-bought brand to keep things easy on yourself, or if you have an abundance of basil in your backyard, make your own.
Buttermilk
A splash of buttermilk is often added to traditional mayo-based potato salad to thin out the mayo and offset it’s full flavor with a touch of tang, but it can also be used on its own if you’re looking for a little creaminess that’s not overpowering.
Greek Yogurt
If you already have a tub of Greek yogurt in your refrigerator for your morning granola routine, you have one of the best substitutes for mayo ready and waiting. You can swap in all or some of the mayo called for in a potato salad recipe with Greek yogurt. You’ll just want to opt for full fat to achieve the richest, creamiest taste (although low-fat can be used if you prefer).
Sour Cream
Sour cream and potatoes are a natural pairing (think baked potatoes!). Like yogurt, sour cream brings creaminess with the addition of tang. It can also be used in place of or in combination with mayonnaise.
Vinaigrette
The simple vinaigrette you use to dress your green salad every night is also a solid choice for your potato salad. To get the most bang out of it, toss it with the potatoes while they’re still warm, so it can soak into them and make each bite extra flavorful. Or, go bold with a vinaigrette made of bacon fat.
Olive Oil
Yes, you can dress your potato salad with just olive oil. Good olive oil can be equally as rich and flavorful as mayo. Again, toss it with the potatoes while still warm to ensure they’ll absorb it easily, and toss in extra spices or chopped fresh herbs too.
Jesse Szewczyk is the studio food editor at TheKitchn.com, a nationally known blog for people who love food and home cooking. Submit any comments or questions to editorial@thekitchn.com. Copyright 2021 Apartment Therapy. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.Allan Benton: A Tennessee Country Ham Legend
In a small roadside smokehouse in Madisonville, Tennessee, Allan Benton crafts what top chefs across the U.S. consider the gold standard of country ham and bacon. The potent, provocative smell of hickory smoke draws in any visitor—and anyone who tries the finished product.
Since Benton started the business 47 years ago, Benton’s Smoky Mountain Country Hams has become a Southern legend. His dry-cured and smoked hams and thick-cut bacon, made by hand the way his grandparents did, can be found on the menus of leading chefs throughout the South and beyond, including David Chang and Tom Colicchio in New York and Chris Shepherd in Houston. The business has been featured in foodways exhibits at the Tennessee State Museum in Nashville and the Southern Food and Beverage Museum in New Orleans, and Benton was inducted into the James Beard Foundation’s Who’s Who of Food and Beverage in America in 2015.
But despite all the recognition, Benton still describes himself—in his thick Southern drawl—as “a country hillbilly just trying to make a great quality product.”
Rural Roots and a Family Recipe
Benton was born and raised in rural Scott County, Virginia. His family farmed and ate what they raised, including heritage-breed hogs that were allowed to naturally forage for their food, growing fat on acorns and other nuts in the Southern Appalachian forest. Benton’s grandparents cured country hams in a log smokehouse behind their house.
After earning a master’s in psychology from Middle Tennessee State University, Benton intended to work as a high school counselor. But when he saw the salary range, he decided owning his own business would provide more financial security.
In 1973, he approached Albert H. Hicks, a dairy farmer who had been curing and selling country hams out of a small building since 1947. Hicks, nearing retirement, agreed to lease his space to Benton, who started curing his own hams using the recipe he learned from his grandparents.
Benton researched everything he could about the curing process and running a business, and credits Hicks for being a helpful mentor. In 1978, Benton moved to his current location in Madisonville, off Highway 411 North.
Building a Brand by Word of Mouth
Benton has never advertised, instead relying on word of mouth. But the business was by no means an overnight success.
The first 25 years were a struggle to keep the doors open, Benton said. Customers were used to buying mass-produced pork products, not heritage meats, but Benton stayed true to his mission focusing on quality products and his family recipe.
For years, the business stayed small and local—no e-commerce, not even a credit card machine. Even now, Benton’s still only has around 20 employees.
In 2000, Benton’s son, Darrell, now a physician in Knoxville, built his father a website while he was attending college. “No one will buy my dang products from a computer!” Benton told him. The day after the site launched, Benton’s had seven orders. He was flabbergasted.
Benton’s big break came when John Fleer, then executive chef at Blackberry Farm, a luxury inn nearby in Walland, Tennessee, started placing orders.
“I had been at Blackberry Farm for a short time in 1993 and was searching for locally-crafted food products. Benton’s wasn’t far from Blackberry Farm,” shared Fleer, who now owns Rhubarb restaurant in Asheville, North Carolina. “I called up Allan Benton and asked for samples. He brought them over in an old blue pickup with a cab on the back.”
Benton recalled, “Back when chef Fleer called me up, I had no idea what Blackberry Farm was. I thought it was just a country cafe. Was I ever amazed!”
“The coolest thing was inviting Allan and his wife, Sharon, to Blackberry Farm for the first time for dinner, and having him see us using his product in ways he would not have imagined,” Fleer said. “One dish I remember he really liked [was] our wild sturgeon wrapped in his aged ham and seared.”
As Blackberry Farm’s reputation grew, it developed a cooking program with visiting guest chefs.
“We’d give all the guest chefs a care package of bacon and ham as a thank you gift,” said Fleer. For some of these chefs, it was their first taste of Benton’s products. Before long, they were appearing on menus outside of the South.
Benton’s Signature Style
Benton’s hams and bacon start with pasture-raised, antibiotic-free pork, sourced from family farms in the Midwest. He uses only heritage pork, older breeds like Berkshire, Duroc, and Red Wattle, which have more intramuscular fat, similar to European pigs such as Spain’s renowned black Ibérico.
As Benton puts it, “you have to start with something good to make something good.”
The fresh hams are coated with a simple rub of salt, brown sugar, and red and black pepper—Benton’s family recipe—and a scant amount of sodium nitrite, to comply with federal food safety guidelines. They’re then hung in a temperature-controlled room and left to dry-cure for anywhere from nine to 30 months, releasing moisture, intensifying in flavors, and taking on a rosy hue. To make his bacon, Benton coats slabs of pork belly with a rub of salt, pepper, and brown sugar by hand, then dry-cures them for an average of 30 days.
“Every product we make is like a barrel of whiskey that needs to be aged a certain amount of time,” said Benton.
Finally, the cured pork belly and hams destined to be hickory-smoked are taken to the smokehouse behind the building for the final touch.
Chefs and home cooks alike rave about the results.
“When I first tasted Benton’s bacon, I thought, ‘Wow!’ I’d never had anything like it before,” said Chris Shepherd, chef and owner of Georgia James in Houston, Texas. “It gives a depth of flavor and smokiness that’s unmatched—it’s the smokiest bacon you’ll ever eat.”
“In addition to its nice smoke profile, Benton’s bacon is a little thicker and chewier,” said Chris Spear, chef and owner of Perfect Little Bites in Washington, D.C. As for the country ham? “I’d put Benton’s up there with the finest European charcuterie,” Spear said.
Weathering the Pandemic
Before the pandemic, Benton’s cured between 17,000 and 18,000 hams a year in their 18,000-square-foot building. But with restaurants making up 75 percent of their business, Benton’s main customer base all but disappeared when the COVID-19 pandemic hit. To make matters worse, packinghouses in the Midwest were closed, reducing his source for pork for months.
Since his cured hams take more than a year to produce, Benton had to quickly refocus to selling other meats, such as USDA choice beef tenderloin and steak, which he continues to offer.
“As grocery stores experienced shortages of meat on their shelves, we saw an increase in local foot traffic and e-commerce. We kept our prices low—$4 a pound versus $8 a pound at the grocery stores—to help our customers,” said Benton.
Despite all his success, Benton remains unpretentious, and grateful to be in business after 47 years.
“I owe all of my success to my loyal customers, especially to the chefs who use my products on their menus,” he said.
“He’s a good human,” said Shepherd. “The first time I met him, I was visiting Blackberry Farm Brewery in Tennessee, and Allan just walked in the door. I was starstruck. I told him, ‘I’ve been wanting to meet you!’ And he replied, ‘I’ve been wanting to meet you, too!’”
Benton’s Cooking Tips
How does Allan Benton cook his famous hams at home?
“This East Tennessee hillbilly just likes to slice up a piece of one-year-old ham and cook it in a greased skillet for about 12 seconds on each side, and serve it with biscuits and gravy,” Benton said. “Overcooking the ham can result in a tougher, saltier slice.”
“Our aged hams, more than 14 months old, are best served thinly sliced on a charcuterie plate with bread or crackers.”
As for bacon, Benton prefers to cook it in a 350-degree oven for around 16 minutes. For those who prefer pan-frying, he shared advice from his wife, Sharon: “[She] says you have to play with your bacon, turning until crisp. You can’t just leave it in the pan and walk away. Bacon should not be overcooked. You want it to bend a bit without breaking.”
Benton’s Smoky Mountain Country Hams
2603 Hwy. 411 North, Madisonville, Tenn.
423-442-5003
BentonsCountryHams2.com
Melanie Young writes about wine, food, travel, and health. She is the food editor for Santé Magazine, co-host of the weekly national radio show “The Connected Table LIVE!” and host of “Fearless Fabulous You!” both on iHeart.com (and other podcast platforms). Instagram@theconnectedtable Twitter@connectedtableMalaysian Researcher’s First Eco-Friendly Drone Has Parts Made of Pineapple Leaf Waste
Malaysian researchers have been working on sustainable solutions for pineapple waste since 2017, and now they have ultimately landed on an airborne innovation: eco-friendly, biodegradable drone parts made from pineapple leaf fibers.
The pineapple leaves—which are usually burned during the annual pineapple harvest—were collected from farmers in the Hulu Langat district by a team at University Putra Malaysia (UPM).
The processed, sinewy fibers were used to build the skeleton of their so-named Putra Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), the university said in a statement.
Professor Mohamed Thariq Hameed Sultan, a research team leader at Malaysia’s Putra University. (Courtesy of Universiti Putra Malaysia)
The Putra UAV is the “first such innovation” on record to use natural fibers from pineapple leaves, plus rechargeable motors, blades, and batteries to support its functionality, according to the statement.
UPM’s professor Mohamed Thariq Hameed Sultan, the head of the research team, said in the statement that “most drones are currently made of plastic, carbon fiber, and aluminum which are categorized as synthetic fibers.”
In test flights, the innovative drone reached altitudes of 30 meters (approx. 100 feet) and was able to sustain flight for up to 20 minutes at a time, the statement said.
Professor Sultan told Reuters that the Putra UAV’s bio-composite skeleton has a “higher strength-to-weight ratio” than its synthetic counterparts, and is cheaper and lighter.
He said a fully dysfunctional bio-composite skeleton could be buried in the ground, where it “would degrade within two weeks.”
One of the drone’s most beneficial features, besides its eco-friendly skeleton, is its capacity for electrical resistance that can prevent the device from short-circuiting, according to the UPM statement.
The team at UPM is working closely with Malaysian pineapple farmers as their research continues, with sights set on a larger, sturdier drone with image sensors to assist in farming and aerial inspections.
William Robert Alvisse of the Malaysian Unmanned Drones Activist Society, an NGO working with UPM on future designs using bio-composite materials, told Reuters that their team is working to “help the industry, the farmers, to increase their yield and make their jobs much easier.”
According to Reuters, farmers are looking for income solutions amid the ongoing pandemic and are encouraging this new demand for the pineapple stems and leaves that were once merely discarded waste material.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterBody Cam Captures Deputy Lifting Overturned Car Single-Handedly, Saving Trapped Woman’s Life
When a Gloucester County Sheriff’s Deputy saw a vehicle spun off the road, he immediately sprang into action. By summoning all his strength to lift a car for a woman with her head trapped beneath the sunroof to crawl free, he saved her life.
Holt was assisting Virginia State Police with a suspected DUI accident on May 7 and was en route to a hospital when he witnessed the car spin. “I was on the scene,” he told 13 News Now. “I observed the vehicle upside down with one of the juvenile occupants outside.”
Deputy Jon Holt from Gloucester County Sheriff’s office. (Courtesy of Gloucester County Sheriff’s Office)
In body cam footage, Holt is seen running to the car following the youth’s cry that his mother was trapped inside. First freeing another smaller child from inside the car, Holt heeded his screams: “He said she can’t breathe … and at that point her head was pinned underneath the vehicle,” Holt recalled.
Then, the deputy’s body camera lens gets obscured, but the audio tells an incredible story. Unassisted, Holt wedged his shoulder into the doorframe of the upturned car, and braced.
“I said, ‘All I have to do is just stand up,’ that’s what all I was telling myself,” he said.
Surprisingly, it worked; Holt managed to create enough clearance for the woman to free herself and start breathing again. She was taken to a hospital for medical assessment.
On May 18, Gloucester County Sheriff’s Office released the body cam evidence of Holt’s “tremendous act” on Facebook, where netizens quickly hailed him a hero.
“Through sheer will and determination due to fearing the female may succumb to her circumstance in front of her panic-stricken child, Deputy J. Holt took quick action and was able to physically lift the vehicle up enough for the driver to maneuver her head out to safety,” they wrote.
The driver was later identified as 50-year-old Channelle Parker, Good Morning America reported. Parker was charged with driving under the influence, a hit-and-run before her own car crash, and holding a cellphone while driving.
Despite all the praise Holt has received from netizens, he maintains he’s just an average cop. However, history may prove otherwise.
In March 2020, the deputy—who has served in Iraq and for the Virginia Army National Guard—pulled two people from a burning building, saving their lives. He has received both local and regional Top Cop Awards from the Greater Hampton Roads Regional Crime Line for his bravery in February 2021.
“It’s what we do, and thinking of doing anything different is, you know, out of the question,” Holt added.
Watch the video:
(Courtesy of Gloucester County Sheriff’s Office)
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterMom Quit Law School to Raise Kids—but Son Who Died in Iraq Inspires Her to Graduate at Age 60
After quitting college to raise a family, mom of three Deanna “Dee” House held onto her dream of one day finishing her law degree.
Dee had cut short her education after one semester at the University of Maine School of Law in 1992.
Later, devastated when her son Joel, a soldier, was killed in Iraq, his bravery propelled her to re-enroll after a 30-year hiatus.
She recently graduated at the age of 60.
Dee with her three children, (L-R) Luke, Joel, and Joy. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
“I decided to go back to Lee and raise my family and it wasn’t an easy decision at all,” Dee told ABC. “I was very sad for many years.”
When Joel died in 2007, the gold star mom said his death “basically took a 10-year slice” out of her life. Over the years, the pain from her loss persisted; but by 2017, Dee was ready to reclaim her dream.
She was accepted back to UM’s School of Law just before Christmas.
A photo with Deanna (Far Right), Joel in uniform (C), her husband (Far Left), and other family members. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
“I had pretty much thought that law school was not gonna happen for me in my lifetime,” she said. “I imagined over the years that I could do it, but I didn’t know what I was getting into at 57 years old.”
Finally, though, on May 22, 2021—after three years of tireless work—Dee crossed the stage in cap and gown at her graduation to receive her Juris Doctorate, while proud family members applauded her achievement.
Joking that her grad photos show “an old lady” looking back at her, Dee answered that she still feels like a girl on the inside.
“Today I’m looking back, thinking, ‘Oh my God. I can’t believe it,’” she added.
Deanna House’s graduation photo from the University of Maine School of Law. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
Besides fulfilling a personal milestone, she hopes her degree will further another cause of hers, and her husband’s—a nonprofit retreat for veterans in her hometown of Lee.
Dee explained to The Epoch Times via email that House in the Woods Military & Family Retreat offers the healing outdoor experiences of hunting, fishing, and other leisure activities as a “way to get veterans together in a safe and relaxing environment.”
Dee at the Fort Hood, Texas, Iraqi Freedom Memorial Monument beside her son’s name. (Courtesy of Deanna House)
Both Dee and her husband want to nationalize the organization framework to establish retreats all across the United States. Bolstered by her recent academic success, she is hopeful for the future.
At the same time, she also believes that her late son had a hand in things.
“Joel has sent me gifts from Heaven over the years,” she said.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterRewind, Review, and Re-Rate ‘633 Squadron’: A Special Aircraft and the Men Who Flew It
Not Rated | 1h 42min | Drama, War | 1964
The year is 1944 and World War II has reached a fevered pitch. Although the Germans have already been defeated by the Allies in North Africa and things are going poorly for them in Italy, the Axis still controls much of Europe.
The ever-resourceful British have come to rely on their twin-engine Royal Air Force (RAF) de Havilland DH.98 Mosquito aircraft to carry out bombing missions against the Axis with the hopes of tipping the scales of war in their favor. Although these so-called Wooden Wonders (they were composed almost entirely of wood) had only been in service a few years, they’d more than proven their reliability and effectiveness.
A Dangerous Mission
Director Walter Grauman’s rousing extravaganza “633 Squadron” covers the exploits of these aerodynamic wonders (among the fastest aircraft of their time) and of their pilots. In straightforward text at the beginning of the film, we read: “This story is inspired by the exploits of the Royal Air Force and Commonwealth Mosquito air crews during World War II.”
The film kicks off into high gear as Norwegian resistance leader Lt. Erik Bergman (George Chakiris, “West Side Story”) and his men ambush a contingent of Germans in Nazi-occupied Norway. Bergman then travels to the UK in order to divulge the whereabouts of a secret German V-2 rocket fuel plant to Air Vice Marshal Davis (Harry Andrews).
Davis then tasks Wing Commander Roy Grant (Cliff Robertson), an American veteran of the Eagle Squadron (the RAF’s U.S. volunteer contingent), who leads a motley crew of British Mosquito bomber pilots, to carry out a do-or-die mission and take out the German installation.
(L–R) Air Vice Marshal Davis (Harry Andrews), Norwegian Lt. Erik Bergman (George Chakiris), and Wing Commander Roy Grant (Cliff Robertson), in “633 Squadron.” (United Artists)
Since the V-2 rockets were a powerful, long-range weapon that Hitler intended to launch against England and other Allied countries, destroying the facility would save many lives, both military and civilian alike. Grant remarks that his men are weary from their recent air sorties, but since his unit, the 633 Squadron, is so effective, he accepts the mission anyway.
During the mission briefing, it is revealed that the Germans have made the V-2 fuel plant extremely difficult to assault. It not only lies at the end of a narrow fjord studded with flak (anti-aircraft artillery) north of Bergen, but it’s also virtually impregnable to conventional bombs. Grant is told that the only way to take it out of operation is to bomb the entire cliff overhanging the plant, thereby entombing it under tons of rubble.
Soon, the good ol’ “633 Squadron” is off to Scotland, where it trains for the mission by maneuvering nimble Mosquitoes through the narrow glens located therein. During a night of raucous boozing at a local pub, Bergman introduces his sister, Hilde (Maria Perschy), to Grant and there’s a hint of a romance.
A possible romance is introduced between Hilde Bergman (Maria Perschy) and Roy Grant (Cliff Robertson), in “633 Squadron.” (United Artists)
The secret Allied mission is to be a two-pronged attack: The Norwegian resistance will conduct an initial assault to disable the anti-air guns in the fjord, followed up by a pinpoint bombing run by Grant and his flyboys on the V-2 fuel installation.
Things quickly go sideways when a large contingent of German soldiers shows up and forces Bergman to return to Norway in order to bolster his forces. However, Bergman gets captured by the Germans and taken to Gestapo headquarters. There, he is relentlessly tortured for information.
Will Grant be able to save his friend and fellow Nazi killer, Bergman, or will he have to take more drastic measures to ensure that no intelligence is leaked? Will the entire mission become jeopardized because of this issue, along with other setbacks?
Sights and Sounds
Composer Ron Goodwin’s spirited score matches the peppy pace of the unfolding action. These rousing melodies pair nicely with the outstanding cinematography by Edward Scaife (1967’s “The Dirty Dozen”). The aerial combat scenes are outstanding, and the film crew used a combination of vintage Mosquitos as well as models of the famous aircraft, used mainly in scenes in which they are destroyed.
A scene showcasing cinematographer Edward Scaife’s work in “633 Squadron.” (United Artists)
In all, this is a fine World War II film that showcases that the Allied war effort was truly an international affair. Robertson’s acting is superlative as ever, while Chakiris’s performance is surprisingly capable and understated, showing that he was more than just a pretty face in his prime.
“633 Squadron” is a well-paced and highly entertaining tribute to all the men who designed, built, and flew the remarkable RAF de Havilland DH.98 Mosquito in combat against the German Empire during World War II.
‘633 Squadron’
Director: Walter Grauman
Starring: Cliff Robertson, George Chakiris, Maria Perschy
Not Rated
Running Time: 1 hour, 42 minutes
Release Date: 1964
Rated: 4.5 stars out of 5
Ian Kane is a filmmaker and author based out of Los Angeles. To learn more, visit DreamFlightEnt.com or contact him at Twitter.com/ImIanKane
Correction:
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the film’s title. The correct film title is “633 Squadron.” The Epoch Times regrets the error.Unreal Photos Show ‘Super Blood Moon’ During Total Lunar Eclipse Across the Pacific
Early Wednesday morning, both sides of the Pacific witnessed an extraordinary celestial sight of notable rarity, when the largest supermoon of 2021 coincided with a total lunar eclipse.
During the stellar spectacle, a deep reddish glow was cast upon the lunar disc due to an atmospheric effect—a phenomenon which gives rise to the moniker: Super Blood Moon.
From Australia and eastern parts of Asia, all the way across the Pacific, to parts of the western Americas, skywatchers took in the cosmic display and captured some remarkable photographs to show for it.
The best seats for viewing were in Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, and on islands throughout the Pacific such as Hawaii—where observers were privy to behold the total eclipse, or “blood moon.”
A Super Blood Moon during an eclipse in Taipei, Taiwan, on May 26, 2021. (Sam Yeh/AFP via Getty Images)
The “Super Blood Moon” in the Philippines on May 26, 2021. (Deng45/CC-BY-SA-4.0)
A total eclipse of the Moon on May 26, 2021 in Auckland, New Zealand. (Phil Walter/Getty Images)
A total eclipse occurs when the Moon passes directly through the Earth’s shadow (within the “umbra” range) and is covered by the shadow completely. When this happens, the Moon takes on a rust-red hue as sunlight, filtered through the Earth’s atmosphere, casts a warm glow upon the satellite’s surface—literally the glow of every sunrise and sunset on Earth contributing to the effect.
At the very middle of the three-hour umbra phase, the total eclipse itself lasted around 16 show-stopping minutes.
Beachgoers in Australia were particularly fortunate to experience clear skies; and photography yielded some stunning shots.
A surfer rides a wave as a Super Blood Moon rises above the horizon at Manly Beach on May 26, 2021, in Sydney, Australia. (Cameron Spencer/Getty Images)
The Moon rises over the Opera House in Sydney on May 26, 2021, ahead of a total lunar eclipse. (Saeed Khan/AFP via Getty Images)
The lunar eclipse begins on May 26, 2021 in Auckland, New Zealand. (Phil Walter/Getty Images)
Observers in some other parts of the world got to watch only the partial eclipse phases, where the Moon is only partly covered by the Earth’s shadow.
Fueling the drama, the Moon appeared slightly larger than is usual, it being at its closest point to the Earth (or perigee) along its elliptical orbit. This phenomenon is what’s called a “supermoon,” which can appear 7 percent larger than a regular full moon—though the casual observer might not even notice.
For those in the United States, the rare event marked the first total lunar eclipse in two years; however, the skies were partially obscured by clouds in areas, limiting visibility.
The Moon over Santa Monica, California, on May 26, 2021, during the “Super Blood Moon” total eclipse. (Frederic J. Brown/AFP via Getty Images)
A full moon next to a U.S. flag during a “Super Blood Moon” on May 26, 2021, in Chico, California. (Patrick T. Fallon/AFP via Getty Images)
Observatories in both the United States and Australia hosted webcasts during the Super Blood Moon (also called the Super Flower Moon, after the flowering season in which it occurs).
Stargazers will be able to catch the next supermoon (called the Super Strawberry Moon) on June 24, 2021; while the next partial lunar eclipse will occur on Nov. 19, 2021. The next total lunar eclipse won’t occur until May 16, 2022. Meanwhile, moon watchers will have to wait 12 more years before another blood moon and supermoon coincide.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterGarbage Collector Spots Boy Hiding in Trash Bin, Stops Compactor Just in Time, Saving His Life
A Florida sanitation worker was recently recognized and awarded in Hillsborough County for saving a young boy’s life.
Waldo Fidele, a garbage truck driver working for Waste Connections, received the award on May 12 at the Hillsborough County Sherriff’s Office.
In early February, Fidele saved the life of a child at a residence along Neving Avenue in North Tampa, Fox 13 reported. Elias Quezada, a 7-year-old boy living with his grandmother, was playing hide-and-seek on a Tuesday when the incident occurred.
Sheriff Chad Chronister awarded Waldo Fidele. (Courtesy of Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office)
Elias had hid in a garbage bin outside the house, unaware that a waste collection truck was en route to pick up the trash.
When the truck arrived, the garbage can was mechanically hoisted up and its contents dumped into the back of the truck. It was at this point that the driver noticed the boy through the surveillance camera and acted rapidly to save him.
He hit the emergency button to stop the tuck’s compactor blade from compacting the refuse, thus saving the boy from being seriously wounded or killed.
The driver admitted he was overcome with emotion when he heard Elias screaming in terror.
“I come outside. I see him, he seemed happy!” the driver told NBC. “I said ok, you are okay now.”
Carmen Salazar, the boy’s grandma, heard Elias crying for help and thought he was trapped under the truck, causing her to panic.
Now, she is thankful.
(L-R) Sheriff Chad Chronister, Waldo Fidele, and Elias’s grandma Carmen Salazar. (Courtesy of Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office)
“I was very scared that day, but also I am very grateful,” she told the station. “Mr. Fidele, you save the life of my grandson.”
During the award presentation, Sherriff Chad Chronister praised Fidele for his actions in saving the boy.
“Had it not been for Waldo Fidele’s quick thinking, a young child could have lost his life that day,” Chronister stated.
“It is his heroic actions that prevented a family from experiencing tragedy and allowed a 7-year-old boy to play another day. We are thankful to Mr. Fidele, and this award is a small example of that gratitude.”
In a Facebook post, the Hillsborough County Sherriff’s Office hailed Fidele a hero, and congratulated him on the well-deserved recognition.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterFilm Review: ‘Without Remorse’: A Serviceable SEAL Actioner
R | 1h 49min | Action, Thriller, War | 30 April 2021 (USA)
Welp, it’s another Navy SEAL movie. “Without Remorse” is a screen adaptation of Tom Clancy’s bestselling 1993 novel, and decorated Navy SEAL Senior Chief John Kelly (Michael B. Jordan of “Creed” fame) is the SEAL in question, who lives with his wife in Washington, D.C.
Michael B. Jordan and Lauren London in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
This is actually an origin story that shows us how John Kelly turns into John Clark, who is one of Clancy’s major characters, and who is portrayed by Willem Dafoe in “Clear and Present Danger” and Liev Schreiber in “The Sum of All Fears.”
Kelly’s about to quit naval special forces and work for a private security firm when a terrible mishap befalls him. The incident will, of course, allow action-movie fans to relish him utilizing all his very dangerous skills. What else would such a movie be about?
The film might have been a good opportunity to make a statement about global politics since it’s directed by Stefano Sollima, who previously directed 2018’s “Sicario: Day of the Soldado” (wherein the drug war on the U.S.-Mexico border escalates due to cartels trafficking terrorists across the U.S. border), and it’s co-written by Taylor Sheridan, who wrote both “Sicario” films. Which makes this the perfect team to tell a dark and dirty geopolitics and conspiracy tale, but “Without Remorse” is not that movie.
Sleeping Giant Woken Up
John’s pregnant wife (Lauren London) and their unborn daughter are killed in their home (John is critically injured), in an ambush that was meant to take John out. Except that he, on this particular night, was sleeping on the couch wearing headphones when the hit went down.
A team of assassins are taking out John’s entire SEAL team because, while in Aleppo, they happened to attack the Russian military (instead of the Syrian), due to being fed deviously altered intel. Why? They got used. And now here come the Russians retaliating against the United States, as was the plan by politicians who use the military as expendable pawns. John, of course, becomes determined to avenge all these deaths.
Following his rehab, and assisted by fellow SEAL Lt. Cmdr. Karen Greer (Jodie Turner-Smith), Kelly tracks down the Russian diplomat responsible for all the mayhem. What Kelly learns could have possible international repercussions, and so Secretary of Defense Thomas Clay (Guy Pearce) wants to head off further mayhem at the pass.
Clay tasks Greer and CIA analyst Robert Ritter (Jamie Bell; Henry Czerny played Ritter in “Clear and Present Danger” as the ultimate weasel) with putting a team of operators together to handle the situation. Clay wants Kelly on the op regardless of Greer’s objection that he’s too emotional; Clay feels Kelly’s revenge motivation will allow him to go beyond the call of duty to get the job done. Unfortunately, it’s pretty simple to figure out who the mysterious string-puller behind the U.S.-Russia discord is.
Jamie Bell (L) and Michael B. Jordan in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
The Setup Works
The family preparation scenes are scant and perfunctory, but the good news is that “Without Remorse” is all about the action, and the action set pieces will hold your attention, as will the charismatic, physical specimen Michael B. Jordan—ditto for Jodie Turner-Smith’s no-nonsense Lt. Cmdr. Greer, who war-fights with the best of them. As far as I know, female Navy lieutenant commanders exist, but there are as of yet no actual female SEALs. But movies make magic, and Turner-Smith sells the heck out of it.
Jodie Turner-Smith and Michael B. Jordan star in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
What else? You get every kind of combat, every which way: guns, knives, grenades, jiu-jitsu rear naked chokes, on sea, earth, air, and land (which is what SEAL stands for). You’ve got your vehicular detonation, vehicular water coffins, Russian fighter jets blowing an American plane out of the sky, and buildings going boom. As the lyric goes, “Let the bodies hit the floor.”
One fun thing I don’t believe I seen before is Kelly’s interrogation technique of putting himself in the exact same deadly situation the bad guys are in: He torches a car and then hops in the back seat, interrogating the bad guy while the vehicle slowly blazes toward a gas-tank explosion. He drives a car off a bridge and then sits unflappably on the bottom of the river, while the car quickly fills with water, interrogating the bad guy. He’s a SEAL. He’s very comfortable in water. Fire too, apparently. Guess that makes him a SEALF.
Merab Ninidze (L) and Michael B. Jordan in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
Although it has a few fun bait-and-switch scenes, it doesn’t, as mentioned, really shed light or offer solutions on global diplomacy or the American military. But then I haven’t read Clancy’s book, and if it’s not in the book, there’s no reason for any such high-minded expectations to be in the movie.
Lastly, it sets up at least one sequel, and if they bring back Jordan, they need to bring back Turner-Smith as well—their chemistry is worth the rental price.
Jodie Turner-Smith and Michael B. Jordan star in “Without Remorse.” (Nadja Klier/Paramount Pictures)
‘Without Remorse’
Director: Stefano Sollima
Starring: Michael B. Jordan, Jodie Turner-Smith, Jamie Bell, Guy Pearce, Lauren London
Running Time: 1 hour, 49 minutes
Rating: R
Release Date on Amazon Prime Video: April 30
Rating: 3 out of 5 stars
Mark Jackson is the senior film critic for The Epoch Times. Mark has 25 years experience as a professional New York actor, a classical theater training, a BA in philosophy, and recently narrated the Epoch Times audiobook, “How the Specter of Communism is Ruling Our World”: https://www.thespecterofcommunism.com/en/audiobook/
Rotten Tomatoes page: https://www.rottentomatoes.com/critic/mark-jackson/moviesWoman Neglected by Mom With Addiction Reunites With Bus Driver Who Saved Her 30 Years Ago
Noticing a 4-year-old on her school bus route living in an unsafe home situation, a New Bedford bus driver stepped in. She may not have known it at the time, but her intervention changed the little girl and her two sisters’ fate for the better.
Thirty years on, Kathy Neves and now-34-year-old Amanda Joseph have reunited.
Joseph was forced to fend for herself from an early age; her mother suffered from addiction and often left her daughters unattended. Neves then became Joseph’s guardian angel.
Amanda Joseph and her son with Kathy Neves. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
“Kathy didn’t know the details, but she would actually come pick me up earlier than the other students before her shift, and she would braid and brush my hair and bring me breakfast,” Joseph said, according to Fun 107 radio. Seeing that nobody was helping the 4-year-old prepare for school, Neves also made sure to buy dresses from the thrift store for her.
One morning, Neves pulled up to Joseph’s home and saw the child waving from a broken window. It was time for an official intervention; Neves called the school.
Joseph and her sister Krystal, who was 1 at the time, were taken into the custody of the department of social services, and the girls spent six years in foster care.
While the two sisters were in foster care, Joseph’s youngest sister Cassandra was born.
Amanda Joseph as a child. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
When Joseph’s mother fell terminally ill, she signed over her parental rights.
The three girls were given a second chance when an adoptive family came forward. At the ages of 10, 6, and 5, the sisters started a brand-new life in a loving home. “[My mother’s] one request was to have all three of us girls get adopted together,” Joseph recalled.
Her adoptive parents had one biological son but little experience caring for traumatized children, said Joseph. Yet, they offered the sisters a beautiful life and the security they needed to flourish.
Joseph grew up and moved forward. She established a home for herself in Somerville with her husband, Dokens, and has a daughter, Evelynn, 8, and a son, Remy, 1. The mother of two also joined a women’s group, “Confidence,” at her local Impact church. However, through all this, she never forgot about Neves.
Amanda Joseph with her sisters, Krystal and Cassandra. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
Upon hearing her story, fellow church group members inspired Joseph to track down the woman who changed her life forever. Joseph found Neves, now a substitute bus driver, on Facebook within hours, where stories flooded in from others who had been helped by the kind driver.
After arranging to meet for breakfast at Percy’s Place in Middleboro, Joseph took along her 1-year-old son. The two women shared an emotional reunion.
“I told her thank you for helping and inspiring me to be kind to others,” Joseph said. “Even though she doesn’t think that what she did was extraordinary, it meant a lot to me.”
Amanda Joseph and her sisters with their adoptive family. (Courtesy of Amanda Joseph)
It meant so much, that Joseph—who now works in a school—is especially attentive to children in need around her, telling WHDH that whenever she meets troubled students, she does her utmost to understand them.
Neves was touched to be remembered after so many years and claims that her intervention was a simple case of stepping up when a child needed help. She and Joseph plan to stay in touch.
“Throughout the years, for whatever reason, some kids just stand out,” Neves reflected. “You see someone who needs something, you go get it for them.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterA Couple’s Guide to Common Money Myths
The wedding was beautiful and fulfilled your fondest dreams. But it’s over, and now, it’s time to settle in and enjoy your new life together. Lucky for you, I’m here to warn you about some common money myths that newlyweds have been known to bring with them into their marriages.
Myth: Double the Income, Half the Expenses
This is what I call newlywed fuzzy math: Merging your lives and incomes into one household is the equivalent of getting a raise. Don’t believe that, not for a second.
Counter: Start out living on only one income, and save the rest. This will require going against everything the culture insists you deserve, but it will allow you to move seamlessly into parenthood. When that day comes, you’ll have an impressive savings account and options. And a gallery of envious friends.
Myth: There’s Stuff We Can’t Live Without
No, there isn’t. But it will be easy to convince yourselves that you absolutely must have matching furniture, new cars, and all kinds of gadgets and services to make your lives easier and keep up with your friends.
Counter: Make a pact that you will never go into debt for “stuff.” Period.
Myth: If We Qualify, We Can Afford It
Whether it’s a new credit card or a new nothing-down, interest-only mortgage for a house that, in your hearts, you know you cannot afford, never allow your ability to qualify to be the determining factor. Getting in over your heads in a house or credit card debt is the recipe for a marital disaster.
Counter: Never think of a credit card company, real estate agent, or mortgage broker as a financial adviser. They are salespeople looking to close deals. Get advice from a wise person who won’t benefit financially from the decision you make.
Myth: We Have Plenty of Time
It does seem as though you have a lifetime ahead. And that you don’t really need to save money now, while things are tight. But that’s a myth.
The truth is you cannot afford to go one more day without a savings commitment for many reasons. You will want to retire. You don’t want to feel forced into debt when something unexpected happens. You don’t want to get used to spending all that you have. You want to create a sense of security and peace in your marriage.
Counter: See 10 percent of your net income as a mandatory financial obligation, just like your rent or mortgage payment. Pay it to yourselves, without fail, starting now.
Myth: Some Money Issues Are Best Kept Private
Whether it’s student debt or a secret credit card account, keeping money secrets from your beloved isn’t good for your marriage. You might be able to pull off financial infidelity for a while, but eventually, it will come back to bite you.
Counter: Start out with a commitment to full disclosure and total honesty. That will build something into your marriage that money can’t buy: trust.
Myth: Everything Will Be Fine as Soon as We Make More Money
It does make sense that if you are struggling now, you won’t once you get a big raise or finish school or get your grandmother’s inheritance or win the lottery. The truth is that more money will never be enough until you learn how to manage the money you already have.
Counter: Make the necessary adjustments now to live beneath your means. That will ensure that when more money comes into your lives, you’ll know exactly how to take care of it.
Myth: It’s Too Late
No matter how long you’ve been married or how difficult your situation may appear, it’s not too late. It will take longer and be more challenging, but you can turn your situation around. Two people committed to reaching a single goal create a powerful force.
Counter: Decide right now that you are going to do whatever it takes to debt-proof your marriage!
Mary Hunt is the founder of EverydayCheapskate.com, a frugal living blog and the author of the book “Debt-Proof Living.” Mary invites you to visit her at her website, where this column is archived complete with links and resources for all recommended products and services. Mary invites questions and comments at EverydayCheapskate.com/contact, “Ask Mary.” Tips can be submitted at Tips.EverydayCheapskate.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. Copyright 2021 Creators.comFajitas have been all the rage since Tex-Mex cooking burst onto the culinary scene. （Dreamstime/TNS）
Festive Fajitas for a Party
Memorial Day signifies the beginning of summer as well as honoring our soldiers who lost their lives in battle. It’s a time when friends and family often gather together. This year, why not serve these incredibly tasty fajitas? Memorial Day weather can be tricky at best. Just to be on the safe side this year, think about making this Mexican-style dish from the comfort of your kitchen.
Fajitas were all the rage a few decades back, when Tex-Mex cooking burst onto the culinary scene. Fajita comes from a word meaning “belt,” and some say that using skirt steak with its unique string-like texture looks like a belt.
Stir-frying tender beef strips along with colorful vegetables and Mexican spices is a quick technique that produces a pretty fajita filling for warm corn or flour tortillas. Make sure to use a high-sided skillet or wok to help cook the ingredients evenly.
This is a very flexible dish, since you can serve it rolled in flour tortillas for a quick family dinner, or open-face on corn tortillas for a fun Southwestern-style party. For a party, you can easily multiply this recipe and add a pot of black beans and some spicy cooked rice to round out the menu. Small bowls of this colorful salsa make a pretty presentation alongside the fajitas.
To drink? Don’t forget some ice-cold Mexican beer or fruit margaritas.
Beef Fajitas With Avocado-Corn Salsa and Warm Corn Tortillas
Serves 4 to 6
For the Salsa
2 large tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and finely diced
1/2 cup corn kernels (fresh or frozen and defrosted)
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley
1 jalapeño chile, seeded and minced
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium ripe avocado, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch chunks
For the Fajitas
3 tablespoons vegetable or olive oil, divided
1 pound skirt steak or flank steak, cut into 2-inch by 1/2-inch strips
1 medium red onion, thinly sliced
1 medium red pepper, seeded and cut into thin slices
1 medium yellow pepper, seeded and cut into thin slices
1 jalapeño chile, seeded and minced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 medium tomato, peeled and diced
3 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
2 tablespoons finely chopped cilantro
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
For the Garnish
1 cup sour cream
Warm corn or flour tortillas
Cilantro leaves
Prepare the salsa. Combine the tomatoes, corn, cilantro, parsley, jalapeño, lemon juice, salt, and pepper in a medium mixing bowl. Cover and refrigerate for up to 4 hours. Spoon it into a serving bowl. Right before serving, add the avocado and taste for seasoning.
In a large skillet with high sides, or a wok, over medium-high heat add 2 tablespoons of oil, swirling to coat the sides. When the oil is hot, add the beef strips and toss every 15 to 20 seconds for 3 to 4 minutes or until the beef is lightly brown. Remove to a side dish.
Add the remaining oil and the onion and toss for a minute. Add the peppers and jalapeño chile and toss every 15 to 20 seconds for about 4 to 6 minutes or until the onion is nicely softened. Add the garlic and tomatoes and cook another minute. Add the lime juice, cumin, cilantro, and reserved beef strips and bring to a boil for a minute. Add salt and pepper to taste and then transfer to a serving bowl.
Serve immediately with a basket of warm corn or flour tortillas and small bowls of the sour cream, cilantro, and salsa on the side.
Tasty Tip: To save time, pick up a container of fresh pico de gallo salsa and then add corn and avocado to it. Season to taste.
Diane Rossen Worthington is an authority on new American cooking. She is the author of 18 cookbooks, including “Seriously Simple Parties,” and a James Beard Award-winning radio show host. You can contact her at SeriouslySimple.com. Copyright 2021 Diane Rossen Worthington. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.WWII Vet Who Turned 97 on Verge of Losing His House—so Biker Club Step In on His Birthday
A World War II veteran who turned 97 years old earlier this month received a welcome gift from a local biker club in Maine.
When the Garry Owen Motorcycle Club learned that the town had foreclosed on Army veteran Joey Comeau’s home in Ellsworth, they knew they had to step in.
The biker club quickly mobilized to raise funds for Comeau, who turned 97 on May 13.
They set up a barbecue and held signs on Bangor Road, encouraging motorists to contribute toward paying some of the veteran’s taxes and saving his home.
“We’ll stop traffic, we’ll put boots out there, but we got to get this guy’s taxes paid so he could do what he wants to do in the last part of his life,” said Warren Ard, president of Garry Owen, to ABC.
Within just one hour, they’d raised over $600.
Then, Comeau was thrilled when the bikers all came up on his deck to sing him “Happy Birthday” and hand him the donations. Tears ran down his face, moved that someone would do such a thing for him.
Over $4,400 more has since been raised through a crowdfunding page.
A relative and advocate of Comeau’s says he owes as much as $13,100 to the town, including all fees.
A state homeless veteran coordinator, Jarad Greeley, those who are age 65 and older are legally protected from tax liens and foreclosures.
Greeley adds that Comeau could also apply to the veteran emergency financial assistance fund for support.
According to Comeau’s friends, the veteran served in the Second World War from 1943 to 1945 and fought on the beaches of Normandy, ABC reported.
Nearly a decade ago, the Garry Owen Motorcycle Club pledged to support every military veteran in Maine.
Some members of the Garry Owen club have family members who served their country in the military.
“Our whole club is about veterans, you know veterans supporting veterans,” said Fleming. “My father was a Vietnam veteran so that made me want to begin this journey with these guys because they take care of veterans and my old man always taught me you know you see a vet out there you shake his hand and say thank you.”
Ard added, “This country is the greatest nation in the world.”
As for the fate of Comeau’s home, uncertainty still lingers.
Yet, the long-lived veteran can take heart in knowing—judging from the support shown on his 97th birthday—his local community, plus a handful of bikers, have got his back.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterA Chef’s Love Letter to Crete
In her debut cookbook, "Aegean," Marianna Leivaditaki shares recipes, stories, and inspiration from her home island
Author and poet Mary Ann Evens, under the pen name George Eliot, once wrote, “We could never have loved the earth so well if we had had no childhood in it.”
For chef and cookbook author Marianna Leivaditaki, the love she developed for the food of her culture as a child set the stage for who she became as an adult.
Ask Leivaditaki about her childhood in Chania on the Greek island of Crete, and she’ll paint a world of edible gardens and olive groves, of homemade cheese and wine, of running around the beach all day and fishing with whole anchovies as bait in the moonlight. It’s a world where family dinners could stretch to include 30 people, and food was never merely a biological need, but also a social one.
This is the world Leivaditaki shares in her debut cookbook, “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea.”
Born in Crete, now head chef of the well-known London restaurant Morito, Leivaditaki referred to the cookbook as above all, a journal. “It’s very personal, because it goes back into my growing up years,” she said.
Alongside recipes for fresh Mediterranean dishes that showcase the natural abundance of her home island, Leivaditaki weaves in the stories and traditions from her childhood that secured her love of good food. As a reader, I felt many times like she was right there in the kitchen with me, showing me how to grill a squid or prepare an octopus (in her childhood, they hung it on a clothesline to dry). I wanted to follow her, from her family taverna to the local market, to her dad’s fishing boat and the sea. Leivaditaki, through words and recipes, introduced me to a land I had never seen.
“It’s a gift, to put your stories on paper,” she said. “My family stories are not necessarily unique from [those of] other children growing up in Crete, but these are the experiences that shaped my career path. To me, they are the most pleasurable feelings—of warmth, love, creation.”
Early Foundations
Leivaditaki’s dad was a fisherman, and her mother ran the family restaurant on the water. From an early age, Leivaditaki and her siblings helped at the restaurant, waiting tables, gutting fish, and peeling vegetables.
Below Leivaditaki’s family flat lived Theia Koula, a family friend who became like an aunt to Leivaditaki. Her home was surrounded by pomegranate trees, olive groves, artichoke plants, beehives, chickens, goats, and rabbits. She and her husband made everything from scratch: cheese, milk, wine.
“She was definitely the one who got me into everything about food,” said Leivaditaki. “Because my parents were really busy, fishing and with the restaurant, I had a lot of time to be downstairs to Theia Koula’s kitchen. I would drink Greek coffee in the morning, with biscuits.”
So many gastronomically interesting things were happening at Theia Koula’s house, and Leivaditaki was brought into it all. After their morning coffee together, they would check on the chickens and take care of other animals on the farm, and harvest vegetables in the field. What stands out the most in Leivaditaki’s memory is the tomatoes.
“Her tomatoes were just insane,” she recalled. “They were the ugliest tomatoes anyone had ever seen—bumpy, misshapen. But you would enter the field and just be hit by [their] sweet smell. She would be really careful which ones to pick—only the ones that were super ripe.”
“The whole square smelled of her tomatoes. I haven’t smelled tomatoes like that in years.”
Then they would go back to the house, sit around Theia Koula’s massive wooden table, and stuff vegetables, make a rabbit stew, or toss together a salad for lunch.
Leivaditaki’s experience with Theia Koula represents so much of what the food culture in Crete is truly about: community.
“Food is not just a biological need,” she said. “This is the time to chat, to spend time with friends and family, to bring up issues—and it all happens around the table. Meal time is all about food—but not as in a human need. It’s about sharing food and spending time together.”
Finding Community Far From Home
As Leivaditaki grew, Crete began to feel small and boring. She needed to get off the island, so she left the beaches of Greece behind for university in Canterbury, England. When she arrived, she was shocked: “first, because I was entirely lonely, and then, because I just couldn’t understand what people ate,” she said.
Her housemates ate a typical college diet of pasta with tomato sauce from a tin. “I didn’t know you could make pasta and put it in a tin, and have it last for two years.”
She noticed that in England, eating together didn’t hold the same weight and importance as it did in Crete. Most of her friends ate alone, in their rooms. Homesick for her culture, Leivaditaki began inviting friends to share meals with her.
She cooked every day, and when she finally moved into her first house after university halls, she created an open door policy, where friends knew they were always welcome for dinner. Slowly, she created a culture amongst her friend group where eating good food together became a part of life. And there was no tinned pasta involved: “England has amazing food; you just have to know where to find it.”
Homecoming
Around this time, Leivaditaki began having doubts about her field of study, forensic psychology. She went traveling to clear her head, touring France and Spain on a bicycle.
While on the road, food, and the cooking of it, became a central theme of her life. At the end of that trip, Leivaditaki looked at the way she’d built her trip around the food. “I thought, this is it. I really need to investigate this more.”
Looking back over her years in England, she realized that cooking food and sharing it with others had become the central theme of her life. Deciding to explore that passion more, she returned to her family restaurant on Crete and took over the kitchen.
In her two years there, Leivaditaki realized how much joy cooking the foods of her childhood provided her. She fell in love with her island again: with its fresh, abundant food from the land and sea. Cooking, not psychology, was what Leivaditaki was made for. Giving people pleasure through food was her life’s passion.
Inspiration From Afar
With this newfound clarity, Leivaditaki returned to England, this time with the intent of working in a restaurant. She wanted to learn how to cook a range of food well. Beginning as a waitress, she worked her way up to become the head chef of Morito, where she continues to honor her heritage and build community through her food. She brings in traditional ingredients and recipes from her upbringing in Crete: grilled rabbit with romesco; cuttlefish, chickpea, and green pepper stew; and organic Cretan sausages.
With “Aegean,” Leivaditaki extends an invitation to readers far from London or Crete. The book is divided into three main sections: sea, land, and mountains, with seasonal recipes such as whole charcoal-grilled fish, summer salad with Cretan goat cheese and barley rusks, and fried rabbit with rosemary and vinegar. A final section, “For After,” includes such treats as semolina cake and loukoumades, traditional Greek doughnuts drenched in honey.
Leivaditaki is passionate about bringing people into the kitchen, encouraging readers to try the recipes for themselves. While some may first appear daunting for home cooks unfamiliar with octopus, mullet, or rabbit, they are so well explained and so deliciously photographed that one could feel brave enough to attempt them. More familiar dishes are in there, too. Reading the recipe for tomato and oregano fritters with whipped feta, I could almost smell Theia Koula’s tomatoes.
“What I’d like this book to be is inspirational,” Leivaditaki said. “You are allowed, as a reader in your own kitchen, to be and to explore.”
RECIPE: Fried Anchovies With Potatoes, Chopped Herbs, and Lemon Mayonnaise
RECIPE: Zucchini and Feta Fritters
RECIPE: Cretan Summer Salad With Fresh Cheese and Traditional Rusks
Rachael Dymski is an author, florist, and mom to two little girls. She is currently writing a novel about the German occupation of the Channel Islands and blogs on her website, RachaelDymski.comCretan Summer Salad With Fresh Cheese and Traditional Rusks
A Cretan salad is in fact very similar to the well-known Greek salad, but has mizithra—traditional goat cheese–or goat curds instead of feta, as well as broken Cretan barley rusks (paksimadia). Sometimes you may also find capers or caper leaves, purslane, and even a few leaves of basil. For me, this is one of the best salads to have with a meal, especially grilled fish, or even just make a big bowl and eat it with nothing more.
Finding Cretan barley rusks may not be the easiest thing unless you live close to a Greek deli. However, there are many alternatives you can use instead that are readily available on the market. Swedish crispbreads are a good alternative and can be easily found, but thickly sliced sourdough drizzled with olive oil and dried out in a preheated oven at 325 degrees F would be my choice.
Serves 4 to 6 as a sharing plate
3 medium, ripe red tomatoes, cut into bite-sized pieces
1 crisp cucumber, peeled, cut in half lengthwise, and then into thin half-moon pieces
1 green pepper, halved and sliced
1 small red onion, cut in half and then into thin wedges
A handful of good-quality olives with pits (we use wrinkly black Greek olives)
1 tablespoon capers
1 tablespoon chopped ﬂat-leaf parsley
1 handful of purslane, if available, or arugula leaves, chopped
1 teaspoon dried oregano
4 small Cretan barley rusks (paksimadia) or 2 large ones, broken into bite-sized pieces
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 tablespoons good-quality aged red wine vinegar
5 1/2 ounces Cretan mizithra (traditional goat cheese) or feta, crumbled
Sea salt, to taste
Combine all the salad ingredients in a bowl, apart from the cheese, and mix gently. Let it sit for a few minutes and then add the cheese. Mix once more and serve.
Recipe reprinted with permission from “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea” by Marianna Leivaditaki. Published by Interlink Books.Zucchini and Feta Fritters
In the summer months in our restaurant, we used to grate about 24 pounds of zucchini every evening for these. It was incredible how many of them would be ordered. We used just feta in the original recipe, but the addition of some hard cheese only makes them better. They’re a perfect snack after a long day on the beach.
Serves 4 to 6 as a sharing plate
4 large zucchini
1 large red onion, diced
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 large handful of fresh mint leaves, chopped
1 handful of fresh dill, chopped
3 1/2 ounces feta, crumbled
3 1/2 ounces strong hard cheese, such as Manchego, Pecorino, or Parmesan, coarsely grated
4 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour (possibly a bit more), plus extra for dusting
2 organic eggs
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Generous 3/4 cup vegetable oil, for frying
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
Grate the zucchini using the coarse side of a box grater, then salt them and let them drain for 10 minutes.
Fry the red onion gently in the olive oil until translucent. Squeeze the zucchini to get rid of excess water and place in a bowl with the onion. Add the mint, dill, feta, and hard cheese. Add the flour and eggs and mix everything together. Season with oregano, salt, and pepper. The mixture will be quite loose but manageable enough to create the fritters.
Heat the oil until hot but not smoking. Check by dropping in a bit of the mixture—it should bubble instantly. Take a large tablespoon of the mixture, roll in the flour, and fry in the hot oil until golden. Repeat until all the mixture is used up.
Recipe reprinted with permission from “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea” by Marianna Leivaditaki. Published by Interlink Books.Fried Anchovies With Potatoes, Chopped Herbs, and Lemon Mayonnaise
When the moon is big and bright and my dad goes out fishing for larger fish, he uses whole anchovies as bait. (The size of the moon determines which fish you go for and what time of night you set off.) He travels further to find the big fish in the deeper waters that are less disturbed by the moonlight. He says, “No lights on the boat, Marianna—the darker the better—they won’t know we’re here.”
Only the freshest anchovies in the market are purchased for bait, and I used to love “stealing” a few handfuls to deep-fry and eat with lots of lemon juice. The herby potato salad and rich mayonnaise just add to the experience.
Serves 4 to 6 as a sharing plate
For the Cooked Lemon Mayonnaise
2 whole unwaxed lemons
3/4 cup (5 1/2 ounces) sugar
1 tablespoon sea salt
2 tablespoons mayonnaise
For the Anchovies and Potatoes
18 ounces Cyprus or russet potatoes, peeled and halved
1 small bunch each of parsley, mint, and dill, finely chopped
Extra-virgin olive oil, for deep-frying and drizzling
Juice of 2 lemons
18 ounces fresh anchovies, cleaned and kept whole
Zest of 1 unwaxed lemon
Zest of 1 unwaxed orange
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
All-purpose flour, for dusting
For the mayonnaise, place the lemons in a small pan with the sugar and salt and cover them with water. Cook over medium heat for about 40 minutes or until they are really soft.
Remove the lemons from the pan, reserving the liquid, cut them in half, and discard the seeds. Put the lemons with a touch of the liquid in a food processor and process until very smooth. It should look similar to curd. You won’t need all of this for this dish, but I always make more than I need since it keeps forever in the fridge.
Put the potatoes in a pan of salted water. Cook over medium heat until soft but not falling apart, then drain. When cool enough to handle, cut them into discs and place in a bowl.
Season the herbs with salt and toss them in 2 tablespoons of the olive oil.
Place a pan over high heat and, when it’s hot but not smoking, add the herbs and wilt for a minute or two. Remove from the pan and add to the potatoes. Drizzle with olive oil and the lemon juice, then season with salt and pepper.
Meanwhile, heat a generous 3/4 cup olive oil in a pan. Put the anchovies in a bowl and season generously with salt. Add the lemon and orange zest to the anchovies and dust them in flour. Don’t shake them too much—you want a nice thick coating. When the oil is hot, place the anchovies carefully in the pan and fry until golden. Remove using a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb any excess oil.
Mix the mayonnaise with 1 tablespoon of the cooked lemon purée and serve alongside the fish and potato salad or, if you prefer, you can mix it in the salad and make it a bit richer.
Recipe reprinted with permission from “Aegean: Recipes from the Mountains to the Sea” by Marianna Leivaditaki. Published by Interlink Books.Uber Passenger Helps Single Mom Driver Clear Debt and Graduate College
An encounter with a generous Uber passenger changed driver Latonya Young’s fate, empowering her to realize her dream of graduating from college.
Picking up passenger Kevin Esch from a soccer game three years ago in May 2018, Young opened up about wanting to return to school. But life was holding her back; a single mom of three with outstanding bills, she couldn’t earmark money for college, reported People.
At the end of their 20-minute ride, Esch made a decision. He gave Young a $150 tip to pay off an electricity bill and told her to chase her dream. The new friends kept in touch.
A few weeks after they first met, Young texted Esch that she was denied re-enrolment owing to an unpaid bill on her college account. On July 2, 2018, Esch paid off Young’s $693 arrears to Georgia State University’s Perimeter College and texted her a photo of the receipt.
“It pushed me to go to school,” the 44-year-old single mom told People. “He just really wanted me to do well. And he was a total stranger.”
Latonya Young (C) with Kevin Esch (R). (Courtesy of Georgia State University)
Esch, 45, told People that he didn’t want Young’s outstanding debt to be her only obstacle. An estate manager by profession, he has since become a friend and mentor to Young, hoping “the ultimate payback” that he could get would be watching her graduate.
And she did exactly that.
Young graduated with an associate degree in December 2019 before battling the 2020 pandemic, homeschooling, and health setbacks to complete a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice from Georgia State’s Andrew Young School of Policy Studies in May 2021. She finished with a 3.5 GPA, reported WSB-TV.
Young, who had a wayward past and trouble with the law, now wants to become a federal probation officer. She has even penned an autobiography, “From Broken to Blessed.”
She told WSB-TV she didn’t think she would have made it if it weren’t for Esch, who attended the graduation ceremony.
“He was a big part of my journey,” she said. “I don’t think I’d be here if I wouldn’t have met him. I wouldn’t have had this happen.”
Since meeting Young, Esch has joined the board of the Jeannette Rankin Women’s Scholarship Fund, providing financial aid to women struggling with college fees. “They cover whatever it is that’s holding people back,” he told People.
Esch and Young’s journey is also reaping rewards closer to home.
Young’s 19-year-old son, Jakobe, is following in his mother’s footsteps by studying business administration at Perimeter College, the same institution that Young attended.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter‘I Should Have Been Bit’: Loyal Dog Takes Rattlesnake Bite for Her Owner, Is Recovering
A loyal dog is recovering after being bitten by a rattlesnake in an encounter where she took a venomous bite in place of her owner.
Earlier this month, Megan Montano stopped by her home off Vandegrift Boulevard in Oceanside, California, during her lunch break.
She let her dogs out into the backyard patio. Montano came out and knelt to put a leash on her chihuahua, Rebel—unaware of the danger that was lurking next to the house.
While dealing with Rebel, she noticed her 3-year-old Great Dane Mia acting strangely, as though wary of some would-be intruder.
Mia got right behind her owner and suddenly jumped in shock.
“All of a sudden, I kind of felt her bump into my side, and rear back, while making a noise,” Montano told ABC 10. “I threw my head to the left and I saw the snake.”
Right behind Montano, a 1 1/2-foot rattlesnake had struck. She was just too lucky that Mia had stood in between her and the venomous viper.
“I should have been bit,” she said. “I don’t know how I wasn’t bit.”
(Courtesy of Megan Montano)
A rattlesnake in Megan’s yard. (Courtesy of Megan Montano)
Montano realized it was the rattlesnake her dog had been wary of. Mia, who had gone to inspect the snake, had been bitten on the mouth.
“She kept trying to hit her mouth with her paw,” the owner said. “Instantly I knew it had bitten her.”
She said that Mia’s mouth started swelling and she immediately rushed Mia to a nearby vet who gave her a dose of antivenom.
She was released that night after her condition had stabilized. However, four days later, she was taken back to the vet after showing more symptoms.
Megan with her dog Mia. (Courtesy of Megan Montano)
“I would say Mia is most definitely my hero,” Montano told the outlet, noting that the Great Dane is recuperating well.
The intruding rattlesnake was then found, captured, and relocated to a safer place. Montano advises fellow pet owners to be vigilant this season to avoid a similar encounter.
“Be aware of your surroundings, and just be smart. Have your head on a swivel at all times,” Montano warned.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterDetail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)
Behold the Beauty: A Rare 18th-Century Parisian Armchair
A Getty Center exhibition: ‘Silk & Swan Feathers: A Luxurious 18th-Century Armchair’
Even from afar, an astonishing 18th-century Parisian armchair evokes a sense of majesty and comfortable rest. The rare, sumptuous, crimson-colored brocade-silk armchair, with its seat generously stuffed with swan- and goose-down feathers entices one to rest in its luxury. Even the brass upholstery nails are covered in squares of gold leaf.
Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)
The armchair’s shape, with its oval seat and gently receding curve of the chair arms is a specific design called a “bergère.” These chairs were created to comfortably accommodate 18th-century men and women: the men with their knee-length coats and the women with their voluminous dresses.
Amazingly, although the armchair is over 300 years old, it has not been refurbished or reupholstered, making it an important source of information about late 18th-century French seat furniture, curator Charissa Bremer-David said in a press release. Bremer-David is a curator in the department of sculpture and decorative arts at the J. Paul Getty Museum.
Armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum) “Remarkably, this armchair still looks very much as it did when delivered to its first owner in the late 1700s,” she said. The armchair, created by prominent French furniture maker Georges Jacob, is the focus of her recently opened exhibition at the Getty Center, titled “Silk & Swan Feathers: A Luxurious 18th-Century Armchair.”
Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)
In the exhibition, Getty experts reveal more about how the chair was constructed. For instance, joiners used mortise and tenon joints, a traditional technique whereby two pieces of wood are interlocked at right angles. Also on display are 18th-century books that comprehensively illustrate the many aspects of the furniture trade, from upholsterers to joiners.
The exhibition ‘Silk & Swan Feathers: A Luxurious 18th-Century Armchair’ runs until July 31, 2022, at the Getty Center in Los Angeles. To find out more, visit Getty.edu
Detail of the armchair (Bergère), 1770–72 or early 1780s, French, by Georges Jacob. Walnut, painted and varnished, and beech; silk, linen, hemp, and horsehair upholstery with swan- and goose-down feather stuffing; silk trim; iron tacks and gilt-brass nails. 3 feet 3 inches high by 3 feet 1 inch wide by 2 feet 6 inches deep. The J. Paul Getty Museum. (The J. Paul Getty Museum)A Bright, Fresh-Tasting, Make-Ahead Dessert for Memorial Day
Key limes are smaller, yellower cousins to the bigger, darker green Persian limes you usually see in the grocery store. They’re more tart, with fragrant, floral juice, and used to be grown widely in the Florida Keys, where cooks invented key lime pie as a way to use the juice.
To make these key lime bars, you don’t actually need key limes. They can be hard to find and are so small that you’d have to squeeze 20 of them to get 1/3 cup of juice! Regular Persian limes work just fine; but whatever you do, don’t use bottled lime juice in this recipe (fresh juice has much better flavor!).
Then there’s toasted coconut. It’s a great addition to baked goods such as cookies or bars, or as a topping for ice cream or oatmeal. It can sometimes burn when you toast it in the oven, so we like to use the microwave, where you can keep a close eye on it as it cooks.
Key Lime Bars
Makes 16 bars
For the Crust
Vegetable oil spray
5 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces (or 3/4 cup store-bought graham cracker crumbs)
1/3 cup (1 2/3 ounces) all-purpose flour
1/4 cup (1 3/4 ounces) sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
For the Filling
1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
1/4 cup (2 ounces) cream cheese, softened
1 tablespoon grated lime zest plus 1/2 cup juice (zested and squeezed from 4 limes)
1 large egg yolk
Pinch salt
1/2 cup (1 1/2 ounces) sweetened shredded coconut, toasted, optional
Whipped cream, optional
For the Crust
Adjust the oven rack to the middle position and heat the oven to 325 degrees F. Make an aluminum foil sling for an 8-inch square metal baking pan. Spray foil with vegetable oil spray.
Add cracker pieces, flour, sugar, and 1/8 teaspoon salt to food processor. Pulse until crackers are broken into small pieces, about five 1-second pulses.
Process until crackers are finely ground, about 30 seconds. Add melted butter and pulse until butter is combined with crumbs, about 10 1-second pulses.
Remove the lid and processor blade. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the crumb mixture into a foil-lined baking pan.
Press crumbs into an even layer covering on the bottom of the baking pan, then use the bottom of a dry measuring cup to press crumbs firmly into the pan until very flat.
Place the baking pan in the oven. Bake until the crust begins to brown at the edges, 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack and let the crust cool for at least 15 minutes. (Don’t turn oven off.)
For the Filling
Meanwhile, in large bowl, whisk condensed milk, softened cream cheese, lime zest and juice, egg yolk, and a pinch of salt until well combined and smooth.
Pour the filling evenly over cooled crust. Spread the filling into an even layer to the corners of the pan and smooth the top. Transfer to the oven and bake until the filling is set and no longer jiggles when the pan is shaken gently, 15 to 20 minutes.
Remove from the oven and let the bars cool in the pan and on the wire rack for 2 hours. Cover the baking pan with plastic wrap and refrigerate until the bars are chilled and firm, at least 2 hours or up to two days.
Remove the bars from the refrigerator and remove the plastic. Use foil to lift the bars out of the baking pan and transfer to a cutting board. Cut into squares. Top squares with toasted coconut or whipped cream (if using) and serve.
For 25 years, confident cooks in the know have relied on America’s Test Kitchen for rigorously tested recipes developed by professional test cooks and vetted by 60,000 at-home recipe testers. See more online at AmericasTestKitchen.com/TCA. Copyright 2021 America’s Test Kitchen. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.World War II Love Letters Discovered Under UK Hotel Floorboards During Renovation
The love letters of a World War II couple have been discovered in an oceanside hotel in England, where they were concealed underneath the floorboards for nearly eight decades.
Found beneath a first-floor utility room at the Esplanade Hotel in Scarborough during renovations, the letters tell the story of two lovers pining for one another during World War II.
The letters are estimated to have been written between 1941 to 1944 according to Scarborough Archaeological and Historical Society, reported BBC.
In the notes, they share the details of their daily lives, how time drags on during the war, and how much they love and miss one another, the report said.
The nameless man in the letters writes, “I’m so glad I’m coming home again… Oh darling I’m so lonely without you.”
Other objects found with the letters include chocolate wrappers, cigarette packets, and ticket stubs, the report said.
The Scarborough Archaeological and Historical Society (SAHS) said that they will be collaborating with the Esplanade Hotel in researching the origins of the letters.
“We will be working with Esplanade Hotel Scarborough on a new World War II project,” the SAHS said in a statement. “We are looking through and researching some of the objects, which include love letters, ticket stubs, cigarette packets and [an] array of chocolate wrappers and tins.”
Researchers hope to uncover the identity of the lovers and have been tracking down clues.
According to the BBC report, the writers’ names have been chewed away by mice over the years. The only clue to their identity was a letter “M” signed at the bottom of one of the notes.
During the war, the Esplanade Hotel was used for military accommodations, for soldiers in training, or on their way to a new assignment.
Mary Woods, with the Scarborough Archaeological and Historical Society, who is heading the investigation, told BBC that there is evidence that the hotel was used by different squadrons during the war.
Among the squadrons who utilized the hotel were the 7th Battalion, Rifle Brigade; the Royal Signals; and the 184th Tunneling Company of the Royal Engineers, the report said.
On March 11, Woods had a breakthrough in her research, iNews reports.
Woods and her team found out that the address mentioned in the letter was occupied by the couple named Jessie and James McConnel. This exciting update led to finding that the McConnells had a son named John, who was in the Royal Air Force (RAF).
“We think the letters may have come from him and been written to a girlfriend while he was stationed at the hotel,” Woods told iNews.
Sadly, John McConnell died in a plane crash at the young age of 19. The SAHS is now searching for relatives of John or his sister, Annie, who was also in the RAF.
The SAHS said in a statement: “The letters are extremely evocative and bring home the personal emotions of people who experienced the traumas brought about as a result of war. It would be truly wonderful if by some miracle, we were able to find out more about these wartime sweethearts and their lives after the war.”
Whoever these lovers were, one thing is certain, their love has been immortalized by this incredible find.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletter9-Year-Old Boy Born With 2 Percent of His Brain Undergoes Surgery to Help Him Walk
A 9-year-old boy born with just 2 percent of his brain hopes to learn how to walk after undergoing a five-hour operation to straighten his legs.
Noah Wall from Carlisle in Cumbria, England, developed a rare brain condition in the womb, and his parents Michelle, 49, and Rob, 55, were told by doctors he would likely never talk, walk, or eat on his own.
However, the young boy has been determined to follow his dream of running and eventually scoring a goal at a football stadium. To make his dream a reality, Noah has taken the first steps.
Noah Wall at the hospital. (SWNS)
Brave Noah was diagnosed with spina bifida—a congenital defect of the spine in which part of the spinal cord and its meninges are exposed through a gap in the backbone. This often causes the individual to be paralyzed from the chest down.
Early scans revealed that Noah would likely be missing a quarter of his brain at birth due to a porencephalic cyst in his head, which was destroying his brain.
As the pregnancy progressed, Noah began to develop more complications and doctors believed he may develop Edwards’ syndrome and Patau’s syndrome.
A baby with Edwards’ syndrome has three copies of chromosome number 18 instead of two, and sadly, just 13 in 100 babies born alive with Edwards’ syndrome live past 1 year.
Patau’s syndrome is a serious rare genetic disorder caused by having an additional copy of chromosome 13, and only one in 10 children with the disorder survive past a year.
Tragically, a “do not resuscitate order” was placed on Noah and his parents were asked five times if they wanted to terminate the pregnancy.
The distraught parents had gone through the heartbreaking process of choosing a coffin and were already arranging a funeral for their unborn baby.
Noah Wall was born with just 2 percent of his brain. (SWNS)
Noah has spent his entire life since birth defying the odds after doctors believed he would live in a vegetative state due to his condition. He also had a rare condition called hydrocephalus, which is a life-threatening condition that leads to an accumulation of fluid within the brain.
The 9-year-old, who recently celebrated his birthday, has seen his brain grow to 80 percent, and his proud mom said she was astonished by how smart he was.
On May 19, Noah underwent a five-hour surgery at Royal Victoria Infirmary in England to straighten his legs and insert two plates into either foot.
During the surgery, the courageous boy lost a lot of blood and had to have a transfusion. But despite being afraid of needles, a smiley Noah said he felt good afterward.
“I felt good after the surgery even if it was very sore after. I have a few bruises and I don’t like needles but I feel good now,” Noah said. “I have a blue plaster cast and blue is my favorite color.”
Noah was in good spirits throughout his stay at the hospital and kept the nurses entertained with knock-knock jokes, according to his mother.
Michelle said that the surgery was an important step towards achieving their goal of eventually having Noah run on his very own feet. Following the surgery, he will be undergoing physiotherapy for the foreseeable future, where he will use a stander that will gradually increase in its angle to apply weight on his core.
It is believed to be a slow process, as Noah’s legs would otherwise break under pressure if he were to stand up on his own now.
However, the mother of three said she was amazed by how positive Noah had been through it all.
Michelle said it would make the world of difference if Noah, who is currently wheelchair-bound, could finally speak to people at eye level.
“He’ll be able to see people at eye level for the first time, I think we all take standing for granted. And we shouldn’t,” Michelle said. “And maybe one day he’ll be able to follow his dream to run.”
Michelle believes that everything is possible in life and, especially with Noah, she says everything is achievable as he is so “determined” and “positive.”
“He never says I can’t, he just thinks about what he needs to do and what he needs to keep doing,” Michelle added.
Noah is a proud patron of Variety, which works with disabled, sick, and disadvantaged children, as well as The Music Man Project, which puts disabled children on the United Kingdom’s biggest stages.
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterEnjoying Glacier National Park and the Izaak Walton Inn
Last June, during COVID, our family ignored California restrictions, got on a plane, and flew to Washington and Montana.
We stayed at the Izaak Walton Inn, located at 290 Izaak Walton Inn Road, in Essex, Montana. It lies halfway between the east and west entrances to Glacier National Park. We had a fantastic time, and no one got sick.
A view of the Izaak Walton Inn from the train tracks. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
The inn is a train-buff’s dream. It was originally built in 1939 to house railroad workers and future tourists to Glacier, but a planned southern entrance to the park never materialized.
Today, however, tourists who plan to visit Glacier do stay at the inn. And because it sits right near the railroad tracks, visitors can watch Amtrak’s Empire Builder passenger train come through twice a day as it journeys between Seattle and Chicago. Freight trains occasionally rumble through as well.
There’s nothing better than drinking a beer on the inn’s back deck while watching a train go by. You can also enjoy a great view and watch the trains from the pedestrian bridge above the tracks.
Amtrak’s Empire Builder heading toward Chicago. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
Visitors can stay in the main lodge or in retrofitted train cars located around the property. We stayed upstairs in the inn, in an Empire Builder Family Suite. It had a queen-sized bed and an alcove with comfortable beds for our teens.
We enjoyed the rustic and train-inspired furnishings. I also loved photographing the birds that frequented the tree outside our window.
A cedar waxwing eating a blossom. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
A classic caboose converted into a family-size cabin. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
We ate nearly every meal in the inn’s wonderful Dining Car Restaurant. The meals are locally sourced, varied, and always delicious.
Enjoying the patio of the Dining Car Restaurant. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
The inn’s play structure for the young-at-heart. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
There are great hiking trails near the inn as well. One day, we hiked 2,000 feet straight up to an alpine lake called Marion Lake. They call it a “moderate” 7.5 mile round-trip hike, but the way up was a killer for me. I was so proud when I got to the top.
Best of all, there was a little bit of snow at the top covering the trail and we weren’t sure which way to go till we saw moose tracks pointing the way. Have you ever seen moose tracks in the snow? I hadn’t. I felt like we’d come upon a wonderful secret. I wish I’d taken a photo.
Marion Lake is also popular in winter for snowshoeing and backcountry skiing. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
On the morning of our last day at the inn, my husband and I did an easy hike along the Essex Creek. It was just as beautiful in a different way.
Water falling along the Essex Creek. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
As much as we loved the Izaak Walton Inn, we were there to visit Glacier, so in we went, through the western entrance. The east entrance (controlled by the Blackfeet tribe) was closed due to COVID-19. It should be open now, but if you visit, you’ll want to check the National Park Service website for any restrictions.
Our first day in Glacier, we decided to kayak on Lake McDonald. We split into separate kayaks with me in one, my son in another, and my husband and daughter sharing one. My son took off and went out as far as he could, planning to get back in time to avoid paying extra rental fees (he just made it).
My husband and daughter went out a fair way, and I—knowing my limits—stayed close to shore enjoying the experience of silently floating by a deer or looking up at the sky.
While we were out there, the weather gods honored us with sunshine, rain, and hail! We all paddled back in the rain, me way before the others, and I froze while waiting for my husband to come in with his wallet so I could run into the store and buy warm, dry clothing! But it was all a great experience.
Enjoying the view at Lake McDonald. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
We also hiked to Lake Avalanche, a 6.7 out-and-back trail with a moderate rating. This time the rating was true. And the lake and mountains were absolutely gorgeous. Someone said it looked like “Tolkien Country,” and except for all the people, it really did. Too bad it was so crowded. I recommend getting an early start to avoid the crowds.
Karen Gough plays in a tree on the trail to Lake Avalanche. (Courtesy of Kate Gough)
Glorious Lake Avalanche. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)
Speaking of crowds, July and August are the most popular months to go to Glacier, but we loved going in June. It wasn’t crowded, especially with most people staying home due to COVID. The only drawback was that because of snow, the popular Going to the Sun Road was only partially open.
If you want to visit, I recommend making reservations now at the Isaak Walton Inn to reserve your spot. They may be already booked for summer; however, autumn and winter are also wonderful months to visit the inn. They have year-round outdoor activities. There aren’t that many places close to the park, and this inn is the best!
Happy travels!
Father and son returning from a hike. (Courtesy of Karen Gough)In the same way that outdoor drying has its limitations, a clothes dryer does as well. It can ruin stuff. (Yuganov Konstantin/Shutterstock)
8 Things That Should Never Go in the Dryer
Clothes pinned to a clothesline flapping in the breeze and drying in the sunshine is a visual that brings me back to my childhood. And oh, that amazing smell of line-dried clean sheets. Know what I mean? Modern-day clothes dryers have almost completely replaced traditional outdoor clotheslines.
A clothes dryer is a convenient appliance that keeps many homeowners in compliance with community regulations that forbid the presence of outdoor clotheslines. However, in the same way that outdoor drying has its limitations (weather, effort), a clothes dryer does as well. It can ruin stuff.
The solution is quite simple. Learn what can and cannot safely be put into your clothes dryer. Then, make sure you keep a good indoor drying rack in a convenient place to ensure easy use.
Tennis Shoes, Sneakers
Most tennis shoes can be washed in a washing machine. But the dryer? Not at all. The heat of the dryer can melt the glue holding the sole in place and distort the canvas.
Bras, Lingerie, Activewear
The spandex and elastic found in bras, lingerie, and activewear are synthetic products meant to stretch and provide shape and comfort. Heat is the enemy of stretchy things.
If you want your bras and other lingerie items to enjoy a long life span, maintaining their original shape and loveliness right to the very end, never put them through the dryer.
Reusable Fabric Bags
Backpacks, lunch bags, fabric tote bags, and reusable grocery bags need to be cleaned frequently—especially if used to carry food items that could leak onto the fabric.
More than likely, your washable bags will do nicely in the washing machine, provided you make sure your cycle settings for water temperature and so forth are compatible with the fabric. However, putting fabric bags through the clothes dryer is just asking for trouble. Plan on them shrinking at the least and falling apart at the most.
Rubber-Backed Mats, Rugs
Have you ever wondered why the rubber backing of your bathmats, placemats, or scatter rugs gets all stiff and crumbly and eventually peels away, leaving quite a mess? The heat of a clothes dryer. From now on, allow rubber-backed mats of all kinds to air-dry.
Swimwear
Swimsuits, swim trunks, and other swimwear should be washed after every use to remove chlorine and/or salt. But the heat of the dryer will soon destroy the spandex and other synthetic properties of great swimwear.
Your family’s swimwear will last seasons longer if you get into the habit of skipping the dryer and allowing these pieces to—you know what’s coming—air-dry!
Silk, Lace, Delicate Fabrics
While silk fabric and garments are hand-washable, silk should never go in a clothes dryer. Silk is very delicate, and the high temperatures of the tumble dryer can shrink or damage silk. The chances are great that it will come out permanently wrinkled.
And lace? Whether a large piece or simply an embellishment, lace can get easily torn because it is so delicate.
Tights, Hosiery
You may assume that you can put tights, pantyhose, and other delicate hosiery into the clothes dryer, provided you place them in a mesh laundry bag first. But don’t believe it.
These items are very delicate, made from synthetic fibers. Heat is the problem. Once dried in this way, you will shorten that item’s useful life. Don’t take a chance. Always air-dry hosiery.
Slippers, Slip-Proof Socks
Most fabric slippers are washable but should not be dried in a clothes dryer.
The heat of a clothes dryer is likely to melt the glue used in the manufacturing process to attach the soles and hold the seams together. The heat of a dryer can also distort the shape, fit, and feel of your favorite slippers. But no worries! Wash and air-dry them instead.
Mary Hunt is the founder of EverydayCheapskate.com, a frugal living blog and the author of the book “Debt-Proof Living.” Mary invites you to visit her at her website, where this column is archived complete with links and resources for all recommended products and services. Mary invites questions and comments at EverydayCheapskate.com/contact, “Ask Mary.” Tips can be submitted at Tips.EverydayCheapskate.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. Copyright 2021 Creators.comHow to Make 3-ingredient Sabayon
If you’re looking for a new companion for your summer berries, search no further than sabayon.
An Italian import adopted by the French, sabayon is a delicate, frothy custard, made with just three ingredients: egg yolks, sugar, and wine. Rapidly whisked together over a bain-marie, the mixture transforms into an airy sauce. Light and subtly sweet, it’s a great dairy-free alternative to whipped cream, perfect for spooning over juicy seasonal fruits.
The original Italian zabaione—sometimes spelled zabaglione—is made with Marsala, a brandy-fortified wine—15 to 20 percent ABV—produced in the city of Marsala in Sicily. Though reports vary, the recipe is said to date back to the 15th century, when it was enjoyed all throughout Northern Italy. The story goes that it was Catherine de’ Medici’s chefs who imported zabaione to the royal court of France, when she married King Henry II and became queen in 1547.
French sabayon traditionally swaps the Marsala for a classic white wine—10 to 15 percent ABV—be it dry, sweet, or even sparkling, like Champagne. It’s thus slightly less boozy, a little airier, and subtler in flavor.
In modern France, sabayon can refer to either a savory or sweet custard. The savory version, made with white wine, egg yolks, lemon juice, and a pinch of salt, is often used as a frothy sauce to accompany delicate scallops or oysters.
This French classic can sound intimidating to make at home—but it shouldn’t be. After all, it’s a one-bowl recipe that only requires three ingredients and 10 minutes of your time. Just be sure to select a proper wine, set up a bain-marie, and get ready for some whisking action.
Choose the Wine
Unlike most savory recipes, in which the type of white wine you choose really matters, a dessert sabayon welcomes any type of white wine. Just know that the sweeter the wine is, the more rich and concentrated flavor the sabayon will produce.
Sweet wines such as riesling, muscat, or an ice wine will make for a richer-tasting sabayon, perfect for topping fresh berries. Dry wines, such sauvignon blanc or muscadet, and sparkling wines—including Champagne—will make for a lighter and less-sweet sabayon, better suited for topping a slice of cake or ice cream in lieu of whipped cream.
Add Gentle Heat
A bain-marie is essentially the French way to describe a double-boiler heating method. This method consists of bringing an inch or two of water to a simmer in a saucepan, and resting a heatproof bowl containing the ingredients to be heated on top of the saucepan without touching the surface of the water. This method applies gentle and constant heat, without burning or boiling any liquids.
In the case of a sabayon, this gentle heat ensures that the sauce warms up and thickens slowly but surely while you whisk it—instead of heating the egg yolks too quickly, which could end in scrambled eggs.
Whisk, Whisk, Whisk
Whisking is pretty much the only instruction here. You can use an electric hand mixer or go the manual route—as long as you’re prepared for a workout.
The white wine and sugar are whisked together first, until the sugar is completely dissolved. Then you’ll add the egg yolks and set your heatproof bowl over the bain-marie. Continue whisking, always making sure the water underneath remains at a simmer and never touches the base of the mixing bowl, and watch as the sauce expands and becomes delightfully foamy.
Once the sabayon has doubled in size and is thick and frothy, it’s ready. If you have a candy thermometer, check that the temperature of the sauce reaches 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
2 Ways to Serve
There are two ways of serving a sabayon: fresh or broiled. For the first, simply spoon the warm sabayon sauce on top of your fresh fruits, and voila!
For the broiled version, make sure you place your fruits into an oven-safe serving vessel first. Then, spoon a few tablespoons of the sabayon on top, followed by a sprinkle of icing sugar. Place the vessel under the broiler or use a kitchen torch until the top is lightly golden and caramelized. The sabayon will puff up slightly with the heat and deflate as it cools.
Strawberries With Sabayon
Sabayon is meant to be served warm, which means you can only make it just before serving. To streamline the process, make sure you have all your ingredients measured out in front of you before you start.
Taking the extra step to macerate the strawberries in sugar beforehand will draw out their juices and tenderize them, as well as make for sweeter bites. The macerated strawberries can be prepared and stored in the fridge a few hours in advance.
Once you get familiar with this basic recipe, get creative with the fruits! Fresh, seasonal berries are perfect, but so are other fleshy fruits such as peaches, apricots, kiwi, mangoes, or papaya. Sabayon is also wonderful dolloped onto a slice of cake or scoop of ice cream, or simply served on its own in a cup, with a ladyfinger or two for dipping.
Serves 6
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and quartered
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar, divided
6 large egg yolks, at room temperature
2/3 cup white wine (dry, sweet, or sparkling)
In a bowl, toss the strawberries with 1 tablespoon of the sugar and chill for at least one hour.
In a large heatproof bowl, whisk together the wine and sugar for about 2 minutes, until the sugar has completely dissolved and no crystals remain.
Whisk together the wine and sugar.
In a saucepan, bring an inch or two of water to a simmer. Rest the bowl snugly on top. The base of the bowl should not be touching the simmering water.
Add the egg yolks to the bowl and whisk until the mixture starts to expand and become frothy. Continue whisking—always making sure the water underneath remains at a simmer and never touches the base of the mixing bowl—until the mixture has doubled in size and is thick enough to easily scoop in big spoonfuls. If you have a candy thermometer, check that the temperature of the sauce has reached 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
Add the egg yolks.
Whisk until the mixture has doubled in size, and is thick enough to easily scoop in big spoonfuls.
Place strawberries into individual serving cups and top each cup with about 2/3 cup of warm sabayon. Enjoy immediately.
Place strawberries into individual serving cups.
Top each cup with warm sabayon.
Audrey Le Goff is a French food writer, photographer, and creator of the food blog Pardon Your French, where she shares recipes and stories from her beloved home country, France. She is the author of the cookbook “Rustic French Cooking Made Easy” (2019). She currently lives in Niagara, Canada. Follow her on Instagram @pardonyourfrenchWildlife Photographer Captures a Beautiful Image of an Elephant in Front of a Double Rainbow
This beautifully timed photograph shows the moment an African elephant appears to pose for a photograph in front of a double rainbow.
Jeffrey Wu, a professional wildlife photographer from Toronto, Canada, was filming a documentary on the plains of Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya when storm clouds gathered.
Wu said: “The heavy downpour lasted about one and a half hours, but right after the rain a beautiful double rainbow occurred in the sky.”
After taking a few shots of the lion under the rainbow, as Wu’s team was still filming the pride, his driver, Ole Ronko Jack, managed to spot an elephant wandering all by himself on a hilltop toward the east.
Wu rushed to snap the once-in-a-lifetime image without delay as the elephant raised its trunk into the air.
“I used a 14mm lens to ensure that I captured the whole rainbow framing this elephant,” Wu said, referring to the photo. “You can see the elephant is washed clean and still wet, the reflection of the body gave it a texture like a metal sculpture.”
He explained that the rainy season is common in May for the region of Maasai Mara, and thus spotting a rainbow after the rain is usual.
However, Wu admits that “having such an intensive whole double rainbow,” and spotting a lone elephant on the hilltop with a clean horizon to photograph is a rare opportunity. “It’s just one of my lucky days,” he said.
An African elephant in front of a double rainbow on a hillside in Masai Mara, Kenya. (SWNS)
The 55-year-old photographer spends 8–10 months each year leading photo tours in Africa. According to his website, Wu—a world-renowned photographic competition judge—began taking pictures from the age of 7.
He derived inspiration from his mother, who is a professional portrait photographer herself. Wu, who is also an artist, author, educator, and conservationist, only became a wildlife photographer in 2013.
The talented photographer strongly believes that “life is not about how many breaths you take, but about the moments that take your breath away.”
Epoch Times Staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterA new color scheme instantly changes the mood of a room. Pale blues, greens, and grays are popular picks for their calming, spa-like qualities. (Artazum/Shutterstock)
7 Ways to Update a Basic Bathroom
Sure, the ever-functional bathroom is sometimes swept aside in favor of decorating more grandiose rooms. But your bathroom doesn’t have to be boring!
It’s the little details that count, so we’ve rounded up seven easy DIY updates for every part of the room, from the walls down to the bottom of your vanity. They’re also inexpensive and quick—you can complete some of these projects in a day. Dust off your tools this weekend and make your bathroom look its best.
Pick Out New Paint
A new color scheme instantly changes the mood of a room. It’s important to use color carefully in a bathroom, since a color choice can easily overwhelm what is often one of the smallest rooms in a house. Pale blues, greens, and grays are popular picks for their calming, spa-like qualities.
Deck the Walls With Art
Just because a bathroom is functional doesn’t mean it can’t have personality. Hang some art prints on your bathroom walls to personalize the space. For a vintage look, decorate with repurposed flea market finds. Wallpaper an accent wall in a fun water-resistant design, or use colorful tiles as decor. For any artwork you hang up in bathrooms, make sure it has some kind of covering to protect from moisture.
Dress up plain mirror panels or opt for different shapes. (Joe Hendrickson/Shutterstock)
Max Out Your Mirror
Say goodbye to plain, store-bought plastic mirror panels. Or rather, dress them up. Paint a mirror frame to match your cabinets for a cohesive look, or swap out a blah square mirror altogether for one with a unique shape. For a funky, casual vibe, you could even hang up an assortment of smaller mirrors.
Switch Out Hardware
An easy way to change your bathroom’s look is to switch out the faucet and cabinet pulls. You can go from rustic to sleek (and vice versa) in a matter of minutes. Hardware installation kits make it easy. If you’re feeling more ambitious, experienced DIYers can also change out the sink to match.
Dress Up Your Doors
Take boring cabinet fronts up a notch by covering the doors with self-adhesive paper. You can cover the entire surface or cut out a pattern, like circles or a chevron print, that allows the base color to peek through. The options for pretty paper are endless, so you can find one that fits your design style.
An easy way to change your bathroom’s look is to switch out the faucet and cabinet pulls. (Matveev Aleksandr/Shutterstock)
Kick Up Your (Furniture) Feet
It’s the little details that make any room look polished and put-together. Make your bathroom vanity stand out by adding furniture feet or a toe kick to the corners.
Get Creative With Cardboard or Other Materials
Cut up large cardboard tubes or PVC pipes and mount them on the wall in a cluster for a stylish storage display. Use them to store toilet paper, rolled-up towels, lotions, and more for a fun DIY project that won’t break the bank.
Better Homes and Gardens is a magazine and website devoted to ideas and improvement projects for your home and garden, plus recipes and entertaining ideas. Online at BHG.com Copyright 2021 Meredith Corporation. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.Annual, Biennial, or Perennial?
Q: Can you help me remember the difference between annuals and perennials? For some reason, I have it in my mind that a perennial is a plant that I have to keep planting and an annual is a one that replaces itself annually. I know that is wrong, but how do I remember it correctly?
A: Have you ever had to make an annual payment for something like your taxes or membership dues in a club? You make the annual payment once each year. You have to plant annual plants once each year, too. A perennial is something that happens over and over again, and perennial garden plants come back each year over and over again. So, what do you think biennial plants are? They are plants that live for two years.
Let’s start at the beginning. True annual plants have short lives. They make colorful displays because they need to produce as many flowers as they can as fast as they can because they are going to die at the end of the summer. A few annuals, such as pansies, do prefer cooler weather and will do better in spring or fall plantings. Annual plants are actually trying to produce as many seeds as possible, so we will sometimes need to remove dying flowers by deadheading to prevent seed production and promote more flowers.
Garden perennials are long-lasting plants that come up each spring from underground storage structures such as bulbs, tubers, and roots. Technically, perennials don’t have to bloom for many years, but the ones we grow in our gardens do bloom each year. They must be carefully placed in the garden because they won’t be going anywhere for a long time. They need good soil conditions before they go in. The better the soil, the better the plant will do. Shrubs and trees are also perennials, but they don’t die back to the ground in the winter.
Biennials live two years. In the first growing season, they produce leaves and roots. In the second year, they produce flowers and seeds. Hollyhocks and some foxgloves are the two most common biennial garden flowers, but there are others. Most biennial vegetables are treated as annuals and grown for leaves and roots, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, and radishes. The biennial herb caraway is grown for the seeds it produces in the second year.
Many biennials and perennials are used as annuals. Some of these perennials are actually trees or shrubs from tropical locations. This is especially true for container plantings. In the summer, just about every plant can grow outdoors. But in the fall of cold climate zones, tropical perennial plants will get too cold to survive unless they are brought indoors.
There are thousands of species of annuals and perennials available to the gardener. There are many North American native prairie, wetland, and woodland plants used in gardens, plus there are more species from across the globe. The middle of Asia, parts of Africa, Australia, Europe, and South America all have regions that have a similar climate to parts of North America. Plant explorers have brought plants from all of those regions to be used in our gardens.
Like I said, perennials need good soil because they are not going to move. Annuals should be moved on a regular basis. At the end of the season, annuals are uprooted and thrown in the compost pile or garbage. However, some leaves, stems, and roots remain in the soil. Decay and disease organisms can build up in the soil by feeding on these leftovers. By planting different kinds of plants from different plant families in the garden, disease organism populations are reduced.
Email questions to Jeff Rugg at info@greenerview.com. To find out more about Jeff Rugg and read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate website at Creators.com. Copyright 2021 Jeff Rugg. Distributed by Creators Syndicate.Man Mows Lawns Free of Charge for Elderly and Vets—Then Hundreds Join in ‘50 Yard Challenge’
A Huntsville, Alabama, man started mowing lawns for free for those in need in his locale. But it soon turned into a movement with kids from across the country, and beyond, joining in to give back to their communities—one lawn at a time.
Rodney Smith founded Raising Men Lawn Care Service in 2015 to mow lawns, free of charge, for the elderly, the disabled, single parents, and veterans.
The idea was conceived when he came across an elderly man struggling to mow his lawn one day, and Rodney stopped to help him.
“That night, I just decided I’ll start mowing free lawn for the elderly, disabled, single parents, and veterans,” he told The Epoch Times. “And eventually, that one small act of kindness changed my life forever.
“At first, my goal was to mow 40 lawns by the end of winter, but I mowed 40 lawns so quick that I upped my goal to 100.”
A month and a half later, he hit the 100-lawn mark.
“And that’s when the idea of Raising Men Lawn Care Service came about,” Rodney said.
He decided to enlist 30 to 40 kids from Huntsville for the endeavor. Soon, more children started joining—not only locally but nationally, and even worldwide.
He started the “50 Yard Challenge,” where kids are tasked to mow 50 lawns free of charge for those in their community who are in need. Rodney hopes to teach these kids what it means to give back.
“If they accept this challenge, they make a sign saying they accept the challenge and in return, we send them a white Raising Men, or even a Raising Women, T-shirt along with shades and ear protection,” Rodney explained.
The challenge awards kids incrementally for their efforts—after 10 lawns awarding an orange shirt; at 20, a green one; a blue one at 30; a red shirt at 40; and after completing 50 lawns, the kids are awarded a black shirt, plus something special at completion. “I personally deliver them their brand new mower for completing the challenge,” Rodney said.
The effort has already attracted over 1,500 kids worldwide to take the challenge. So far, over 100 have brought the challenge to completion.
Meanwhile, parents really take pride in the kids making such positive contributions to their community, Rodney said.
The endeavor has also beneficially impacted their own lives.
Even during the pandemic, more children continued to join the challenge, allowing them to get outside in the sun and fresh air for some healthy, productive exercise.
The challenge has helped kids who were once isolated and lonely to connect with others in their community.
“I remember one parent in Michigan.” Rodney said. “She told me her son was isolated and he kept to himself. But when he started taking the 50 Yard Challenge, he started becoming friendly with everyone.”
On a more profound note, Rodney expressed his belief that he’s on a mission from God to continue offering kindness to others.
“God turned something I dislike and turned it into something I love to do,” he said. “And every single day I’m outside mowing free lawns for those in need, and it’s a beautiful thing to see kids wanting to do the same.
“No one’s forcing them, and they’re wanting to get out there and make a difference in their community—one lawn at a time.”
Kids aged 7 to 17 can join Raising Men and take part in the 50 Yard Challenge. If you or your child are interested in taking the challenge, you can sign up at: https://weareraisingmen.com.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterSetting up a buffet table outside is a wonderful way to spend the afternoon with friends. (Victoria de la Maza)
Easy Entertaining: Grilling in the Garden
For many of us, Memorial Day weekend marks the beginning of summer. What better way to celebrate than by firing up the grill and enjoying a meal outdoors? When I open the lid of the hot grill and the heat hits my face, it’s right at that moment that I know summer is here.
For this glorious afternoon, I’ve created a menu that needs a bit of preparation in the kitchen, but then is finished on the grill in under 15 minutes. While my friends are sipping sangria, I can handle the grilled items—and show off my grilling prowess—and have everything ready to go on the table.
On the Menu
I start with a favorite herbed potato salad, prepared in the morning. The potatoes are tossed with good olive oil, garlic, and masses of fresh herbs while still warm, so they absorb all those wonderful flavors, and then chilled. Served cold or at room temperature, it is a sensational dish, full of aroma and color.
For the main event, I’m arranging a tray of sliders with different toppings and sauces, for everyone to mix and match as they please. Fun, right?
I much prefer sliders to their larger cousins, as I love to try different proteins with different garnishes. For today, I’m making spicy beef patties, to spread with Dijon mustard on Hawaiian rolls, and bites of grilled salmon, nestled in Boston lettuce leaves slathered with a bright caper-mayonnaise sauce. These two-bite mini-burgers pack a huge amount of flavor.
Play with the sauces and garnishes: You can lay out lettuce and tomato slices, avocado, fresh mango, relish, ketchup, mayonnaise, different mustards, and even hot sauces, so your guests can customize their own perfect sliders. This is a great opportunity to try out local specialties—like that spicy pepper jelly that you bought from the market on a whim, and has been sitting in your pantry for the past three months.
It’s also interesting to play around with the bread—try Hawaiian rolls, brioche, English muffins, potato buns, or even ciabatta. For those avoiding gluten, I always set out some Boston lettuce to serve as “buns.”
While the grill is hot, I also throw on a few ears of corn, which go from grill to table in about 10 minutes. To dress it up a bit, I spread the cooked ears with a creamy sauce of Greek yogurt, sour cream, and fresh lime juice, then top them off with crumbly aged cotija cheese, for flavors reminiscent of elotes, Mexican street corn. I make the sauce in the morning, to give the flavors time to develop, and spread it on the corn right after it comes off the grill. Make double, as your friends will inhale it and ask for more.
For dessert, keep it simple and fresh with watermelon and melon balls, dressed with a little sugar to bring out their natural sweet juices.
Setting the Table
Setting up a buffet outside is such a wonderful way to spend the afternoon with friends. I am setting the buffet table with a colorful tablecloth, melamine plates and glasses, large napkins, and wicker trays to carry everything out. I’ll serve all the food on platters, and set out a big pitcher of sangria for sipping.
My small garden in Charleston is easily transformed into a sitting room. I’ll find a shady spot and make sure that there are comfy chairs and chaises to lounge on (bring extra pillows!), side tables or ceramic stools to put down drinks and plates, and large napkins to cover our laps. We’re bringing the inside out, to create a comfortable space to encourage conversation, camaraderie, and laughter.
Without a set table, we’re free to move around and serve ourselves from the buffet. More informal than other meals, this one is all about relaxing outside with friends, enjoying the fresh air, and savoring that first taste of summer.
As of this writing, you can find me sipping sangria and nibbling on grilled corn, while reclining on a chaise surrounded by pillows. Cheers!
RECIPE: Potato Salad With Fresh Herbs
RECIPE: Spicy Beef Sliders
RECIPE: Grilled Salmon Lettuce Sliders With Caper Mayonnaise
RECIPE: Grilled Corn With Cotija Cream
Victoria de la Maza is an award-winning cookbook author, columnist, and international TV host. Passionate about great food, she combines American traditions with her European heritage to create classic-with-a-twist recipes and ideas for stylish entertaining at home.Spicy Beef Sliders
These two-bite sliders are juicy and flavorful, and definitely pack a punch! Hawaiian rolls are the perfect size; you can cut out the centers if you prefer a thinner bun. I mix ground meat with diced jalapeño peppers, parsley, and cotija cheese, then cook the patties on the grill, alongside the Hawaiian rolls. Spread the hot rolls with mustard, add the patties, and finish with your favorite toppings.
Makes 8 sliders
1 pound ground beef
2 tablespoons diced pickled jalapeños
2 tablespoons parsley, finely chopped
4 tablespoons cotija cheese, crumbled
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
8 Hawaiian rolls
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard
Lettuce leaves
1 Roma tomato, sliced thin
4 slices cheddar cheese, cut in half
In a bowl, gently mix together the beef with the jalapeño, parsley, and cotija cheese, and season with ground pepper.
Form patties the size of the buns you will be using (they will shrink when cooked). Make a small indentation in the center of each one, so they will stay flat while cooking. On a hot grill, cook the patties for 1 to 2 minutes per side, or until done to your liking. Season with salt.
Toast the buns on the grill until golden. Assemble the sliders with the beef patties, lettuce, tomato slices, cheese, and any garnishes and sauces you like.Grilled Corn With Cotija Cream
This Mexican street corn-inspired grilled corn recipe is absolutely mandatory to make during the summer; it goes from grill to table in about 10 minutes.
I spread the cooked ears with a creamy sauce made with Greek yogurt, sour cream, and lime juice. You can make the sauce with mayonnaise, but in the heat of the day, I prefer to use Greek yogurt as a safer alternative. Spread it on the corn right after it comes off the grill, then top it off with fresh cilantro and crumbly cotija cheese. I use aged cotija to add more depth of flavor.
Serves 6
2 tablespoons sour cream
2 tablespoons Greek yogurt (or mayonnaise)
1 teaspoon lime juice
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
6 ears corn, husks removed
3 tablespoons crumbled cotija cheese
2 tablespoons cilantro leaves, roughly chopped
In a small bowl, mix together the sour cream, Greek yogurt (or mayonnaise), and lime juice. Season with salt and pepper and taste to adjust seasonings. Chill until ready to use.
On a hot grill, cook the corn, turning about every 2 minutes, until cooked on all sides, about 10 minutes total.
Spread with the cream, top with the cotija cheese, and sprinkle cilantro on top. Serve immediately.Grilled Salmon Lettuce Sliders With Caper Mayonnaise
Less is more for salmon, as I want the flavor of the fish to come through. For these lettuce-wrapped “sliders,” I grill bite-sized pieces of salmon and serve them in Boston lettuce cups, spread with a creamy, mayo-based sauce, made bright and tangy with lemon and capers. Other garnishes that may work are slices of avocado, mango, or thinly sliced peppers.
Makes 8
2 tablespoon mayonnaise (or Greek yogurt)
2 tablespoon capers
2 tablespoon lemon juice
8 Boston lettuce leaves
8 2-inch pieces salmon
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
In a small bowl, mix together the mayonnaise, capers, and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper and taste to adjust seasonings. Spread the lettuce leaves with the mayonnaise mixture and set aside.
On a hot grill, cook the salmon for 2 minutes per side. Place a piece in each of the prepared lettuce leaves and season with salt and pepper to taste.Potato Salad With Fresh Herbs
This simple potato salad is made with baby red potatoes, olive oil, garlic, and masses of fresh herbs. Toss it together while the potatoes are warm, so they absorb all those wonderful flavors, but serve at room temperature or chilled. I make it in the morning and take it out of the fridge 20 minutes before serving, so that the oil comes back to room temperature.
I am partial to red baby potatoes, as the combination of the red, white, and green is so cheerful and charming, but fingerling, Yukon gold, and even large Idaho potatoes would work; just dice them to an even size. Other additions could be bacon bits, scallions, and finely diced shallots, to play with colors, textures, and flavors.
Serves 4 to 6
2 cups mixed fresh herbs, such as parsley, dill, and tarragon, stems removed and roughly chopped
1/2 cup olive oil
1 clove garlic, minced
2 pounds baby red potatoes, cut in half or quarters
Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
In a small bowl, combine the herbs, olive oil, and garlic. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.
In a large pot of salted boiling water, boil the potatoes until fork-tender, about 20 minutes. Drain them and transfer to a serving bowl. Dress with the reserved sauce and mix well. Taste to adjust seasonings.
Chill until ready to serve.The Last Days of Stonewall Jackson
May is a beautiful month, but in Civil War history, it is also a sad one. The South lost both Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson and General J.E.B. Stuart in May, one year apart (1863 and 1864).
If you venture off I-95 near Fredericksburg, you can visit the site that was, until recently, called the Stonewall Jackson “Shrine.” Due to the changing times, the name has now officially been changed to The Stonewall Jackson Death Site.
The Stonewall Jackson Shrine at the plantation outbuilding where Jackson died, Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park. (NPS)
‘Fairfield’ Frozen in Time
After being wounded by friendly fire while scouting the battlefield near Chancellorsville at night on May 2, 1863, General Jackson was taken to a field hospital where his badly injured left arm was amputated.
Confederate army commander Robert E. Lee selected Guinea Station as the best location for Jackson to be taken following the surgery, most likely because of its proximity to the railroad to Richmond where he could then be transported to a hospital. Lee is famously quoted as saying, “He has lost his left arm; but I have lost my right arm.”
General Jackson ended up in a plantation office building on Thomas C. Chandler’s 740-acre plantation named “Fairfield.” Although offered the use of the Chandler house, Jackson’s doctor and staff officers chose a quiet and private outbuilding as the best place for Jackson to rest.
The Chancellorsville Battlefield, where Jackson was wounded by friendly fire, at the Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park. (NPS)
The Chandlers prepared the room using the same bed frame and one of the same blankets that are still on exhibit today. They also added the clock on the mantel with the hope that it would make the room look more homelike and less like an outbuilding.
Despite his condition and the grueling 27-mile ambulance ride, Jackson remembered his manners upon arrival to the property by apologizing to Mr. Chandler for being unable to shake hands with his host.
His Wife Arrives
On May 7, Mrs. Jackson and baby daughter Julia arrived at Guinea Station and found lodging in the Chandler home. Earlier that month, the Jacksons had spent a nine-day reunion together that had been interrupted by the renewal of fighting that called the general away.
Amazingly, that reunion was the first time General Jackson had seen his wife in a year, and the first time he met his five-month-old daughter. Mrs. Jackson wrote of that visit:
“It was raining and he was afraid to take her in his arms with his wet overcoat, but upon arrival at the house, he speedily divested himself of his overcoat, and, taking his baby in his arms, he caressed her with the tenderest affection, and held her long and lovingly. During the whole of this short visit when he was with us, he rarely had her out of his arms, waking her, and amusing her in every way that he could think of—sometimes holding her up before a mirror and saying, admiringly, ‘Now, Miss Jackson, look at yourself.’ Then he would turn to an old lady of the family and say, ‘Isn’t she a little gem?’ When she slept in the day, he would often kneel over her cradle, and gaze upon her little face with the most rapt admiration, and he said he felt almost as if she were an angel in her innocence and purity.”
This second reunion wasn’t nearly as pleasant. Mrs. Jackson spent most of her time at her husband’s bedside in the office, which lifted the spirits of the general. His surgeon Dr. Hunter McGuire recorded the incidents that transpired:
“The General’s joy at the presence of his wife and child was very great, and for him unusually demonstrative. Noticing the sadness of his wife, he said to her tenderly: ‘I know you would gladly give your life for me, but I am perfectly resigned. Do not be sad. I hope I may yet recover. Pray for me, but always remember in your prayers to use the petition, Thy will be done.’”
A portrait of Gen. Jackson, taken on a Spotsylvania County, Va., farm on April 26, 1863, seven days before his mortal wounding at the Battle of Chancellorsville. (Public domain)
While Jackson was making progress in his recovery from his battle wounds, he took a turn for the worse after contracting pneumonia. Despite the efforts of specialists, nothing seemed to help him improve.
In recording the details of Jackson’s wound and treatment, McGuire wrote: “When his child was brought to him to-day he played with it for some time, frequently caressing it and calling it his ‘little comforter.’ At one time he raised his wounded hand above his head and closing his eyes, was for some moments silently engaged in prayer. He said to me: ‘I see from the number of physicians that you think my condition dangerous, but I thank God, if it is His will, that I am ready to go.’”
About daylight on Sunday morning, Mrs. Jackson informed him that his recovery was very doubtful, and that it was better that he should be prepared. Jackson was reportedly silent for a moment, and then said: “It will be infinite gain to be translated to Heaven.”
McGuire then reports in his journal: “His exhaustion increased so rapidly that at 11 o’clock Mrs. Jackson knelt by his bed and told him that before the sun went down he would be with his Savior. He replied: ‘Oh, no; you are frightened, my child; death is not so near; I may yet get well.’”
Those words caused Mrs. Jackson to lean over upon the bed, weeping bitterly, telling him again that the physicians said there was no hope. After pausing, he called for Dr. McGuire, and said, “Doctor, Anna informs me that you have told her that I am to die today; is it so?” After hearing the answer, he turned his eyes toward the ceiling and gazed for a moment or two as if in intense thought, then replied, “Very good, very good, it is all right.” He then tried to comfort his almost-heartbroken wife and told her that he had a great deal to say to her, but he was too weak.
Jackson’s Assistant Adjutant General Sandie Pendleton was so busy with the affairs of the command that he didn’t have time to visit the general until May 10. When he entered the room around 1 o’clock, Jackson asked him who had preached at headquarters. Pendleton replied that the whole army was praying for him, and Jackson responded: “Thank God, they are very kind. It is the Lord’s Day; my wish is fulfilled. I have always desired to die on Sunday.”
The relationship between Pendleton and Jackson had always been a close one, with Jackson loving him like a son. Sandie was so affected by the conversation that he went to the porch and wept. He later told Mrs. Jackson, “God knows I would have died for him.”
The Last Moments
Jackson died later that day, at 3:15 p.m. with Dr. McGuire carefully noting his last words:
“A few moments before he died he cried out in his delirium, ‘Order A.P. Hill to prepare for action! Pass the infantry to the front rapidly! Tell Major Hawks’ — then stopped, leaving the sentence unfinished. Presently a smile of ineffable sweetness spread itself over his pale face, and he said quietly, and with an expression, as if of relief, ‘Let us cross over the river, and rest under the shade of the trees.’”
The Clock
When the building is open to the public, visitors can stand in the room where Jackson died, see his bed, and hear the ticking of the same clock that he heard the last moments of his life. It is the clock that Dr. McGuire used to record the time of his death: 3:15 p.m. on May 10.
The clock in the room where Stonewall Jackson passed away. (NPS)
Stonewall Jackson’s deathbed. (NPS)
The clock, blanket, and bed are said to have been saved thanks to a 12-year-old girl named Lucy Chandler, the daughter of the plantation’s owner. When Jackson passed away, Lucy was distraught. She told her mother that she wanted to trade places with Jackson because only her parents would be upset if she died, but the whole South would be upset if Jackson died.
When she became older, Lucy tucked away the clock, blankets, and some relics and kept a diagram of what the room looked like when Jackson passed away. The room and the building are set up with the help of that diagram.
It’s said that Lucy also placed four Confederate flags on the posts of the bed, and that is how the site became known as a shrine. That part of the historical record is hard to substantiate and is likely lost forever.
The South Weeps
By the time the train carrying General Jackson’s remains entered the outskirts of Richmond, an immense crowd had gathered, the largest in the history of the city. The train slowed to a crawl, then proceeded ahead for two miles to the station, surrounded by thousands of bareheaded men and weeping women. Church bells tolled and guns split the air. All businesses in the city were closed, and black crepe hung everywhere.
The entire South was in mourning.
Jackson was then taken to Lexington, Virginia, where he is buried.
If You Go
The Stonewall Jackson Shrine can be reached from I-95 by taking Exit 118 (Highway 606) and driving east on 606 for about four miles.
During your visit, you may hear a CSX Transportation train rumble past the site on the old Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac line.
As a side note, Jackson’s arm is buried at a nearby plantation and is marked with a headstone.
An Earlier Love Letter to His Wife
One probably doesn’t think of General “Stonewall” Jackson as a hopeless romantic, but here is a letter he wrote to his wife on Sept. 25, 1862.
“Darling, my heart turns to you with a love so great that pain flows in its wake. You cannot understand this, my beautiful, bright-eyed, sunny-hearted princess. Your face is the sweetest face in all the world, mirroring, as it does, all that is pure and unselfish, and I must not cast a shadow over it by the fears that come to me, in spite of myself. No, a soldier should not know fear of any kind. I must fight and plan and hope, and you must pray. Pray for a realization of all our beautiful dreams, sitting beside our own hearthstone in our own home—you and I, you my goddess of devotion, and I your devoted slave. May God in his mercy spare my life and make it worthy of you!
Your soldier”
Jessica James is an award-winning author of historical fiction, women’s fiction, and suspense/thrillers, whose passions include history and travel. When not writing books, she enjoys wandering the backroads of America and blogging about our nation’s almost-forgotten past at PastLaneTravels.com.Couple Buy ‘Crumbling’ 18th Century Mansion, Save It From Ruin in 3-Year-Transformation
It was a formidable project. An 18th century mansion, vacant for 30 years and falling into disrepair. But Katie and Lester Bayfield had a vision for the future of their investment.
Over the course of three years, the couple pulled out all the stops, transforming the mansion from near-ruin into an antique luxury home, for themselves and their three sons.
Salhouse Hall near Norwich in Norfolk, England, was boarded up when the Bayfields first found it. They purchased the derelict building with 30 acres of land from a local farmer in 2017 and started work the very same year.
“Everything we touched fell apart,” Lester, 55, told The Mirror. “We saved it from ruin. I don’t know how long it would have survived.”
The couple gutted the home from top to bottom, replacing ceilings, walls, and floors with the help of Lester’s employees—the father of three runs Norfolk Barn Specialists Limited. Successfully salvaging the original castellated rooftop on the mansion’s exterior, the reno team also kept many original features inside, including restoring ornate fireplaces to their former glory.
Katie, an interior designer, said that the couple’s friends and family thought they were “crazy” to take on such a huge project. “Everything crumbled,” she recalled. “You had to be careful where you were walking as there were holes in the floor … But we saw the potential in it.”
Acquired by a man named Robert Ward in 1712, the derelict mansion caught the eye of the Bayfields when they were hunting for a new restoration project online. Salhouse Hall wasn’t their first rodeo; they’d previously bought and restored nearby Hautbois Hall, converting the manor into a wedding venue, before moving out to take on a property that would afford more privacy for their children.
At Salhouse, they lived in a converted outbuilding for the majority of the restoration.
As work proceeded, Katie began logging their progress on a dedicated Instagram page. The family declared the mansion finished in January 2021, with Katie posting, “We have loved every minute of saving her and very much love living here.”
Their “little castle” retains its stately aura on the outside while the inside is thoroughly contemporized. The home boasts five bedrooms, each with a bathroom en-suite, and features a movie theater and arcade. The Bayfields believe it’s now worth millions.
Finishing touches include a courtyard with a herd of deer in the property’s substantial grounds, while the outbuildings have been converted into two self-contained luxury holiday cottages.
Despite the tears, clashes of opinion, and vast financial cost involved in such a huge project, Katie nonetheless concludes that it was worth it in the end.
“Keep going and don’t give up,” she posted on Instagram as encouragement to others. “Follow that dream.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterChen Yinghua is unlawfully detained at the Nanjing Detention Center in China in July 2013 ﻿for refusing to give up her faith in Falun Gong. (Courtesy of Chen Yinghua)
‘Communism Has Infiltrated America and the World,’ Warns a Persecuted Chinese Refugee
A Chinese woman who fled overseas in late 2019 has endured a life many in the West would find unfathomable.
Unlawfully incarcerated and tortured in Chinese prisons for her faith, she describes her experience as “hell.” In fact, countless like her have suffered far worse at the hands of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), and Chen Yinghua, 49, having escaped to North America, calls herself one of the lucky ones.
Coming from a totalitarian state where differing views are suppressed or canceled, Chen is noticing similarities emerging in North America. Speaking to The Epoch Times from her new home in Calgary, Canada, Chen said she hopes the world will soon wake up to communism’s true goal: to “rule all humanity and eventually destroy it.”
“I want to share my real-life experience with those who still have illusions about communism due to ignorance; with those who are numb and indifferent to the CCP’s destruction of Hong Kong, the United States, and even the world; and with those foreign agents who, due to their personal vested interests, are willfully lured in by the CCP to be its accomplice in the destruction of human society,” she said.
“I believe this is God’s will, to tell the truth about communism and about those who have been persecuted by it. This is saving humanity.”
Westerners are starting to experience the evilness of the leftist push. The CCP has subtly infiltrated all key areas of American and Canadian societies for decades. If you don’t flatly reject the CCP, people will soon lose their free will. — Chen Yinghua, originally from China
Chen Yinghua, 49, speaks with an Epoch Times reporter in her new home in Calgary, Canada, in May 2021. (Michael Wing/The Epoch Times)
In China, Chen was a peace-loving model citizen until her views diverged from those of the communist regime, which put her on its blacklist as a “state enemy.”
She was a college graduate who later worked for her husband’s electrical repair company, and she and her husband had a son together. At the time, they felt that things such as political suppression and torture were just shadowy rumors unrelated to them. But that changed in the year 2000, when she began practicing Falun Gong.
An ancient spiritual discipline rooted in traditional Chinese culture, incorporating teachings based on the core principles of “truthfulness, compassion, and forbearance,” Falun Gong is a form of qigong that involves five meditative exercises for cultivating body and mind. It’s currently practiced by an estimated 100 million people around the world.
The officially atheist CCP—under which divergent thoughts are regarded as a threat to its iron-fist rule—has been violently persecuting Falun Gong since July 1999, arresting, torturing, and killing untold numbers of adherents.
Chen says her experience of being persecuted for practicing her faith should sound a warning for everyone about what may be about to unfold in the West and particularly in the United States.
“Socialism and communism are a scam,” she said. “Socialist changes could happen at any time, and the kindhearted American and Canadian people will lose their most precious thing—free will.
“What kind of future does socialism bring to a country and its people? China and the Chinese people provide a lesson. The current state of the Chinese people is the future of those who want to take the socialist road. You’ll see that if you take a step back, communism takes a step forward, and sooner or later you have nowhere to go.
“Westerners are starting to experience the evilness of the leftist push. We have experienced this already in China. The CCP has subtly infiltrated all key areas of American and Canadian society for decades.”
A photo of Chen Yinghua during a four-year sentence in the Detention Center of Shijiazhuang prison, in Hebei Province, where she suffered wounds on her face during multiple violent force-feeding sessions. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
Ancient Spirituality Meets Communism
Chen said her mother, Jinling, was the first in her family to practice Falun Gong, starting in 1998, before the persecution. That was also the year Chen’s elder brother emigrated to Canada.
“A month after my mom started practicing, all her illnesses were suddenly cured. She had recovered,” Chen said. “My mom then recommended it to me. I was 27 years old at the time.”
In 1999, Chen’s father-in-law, who was a Party secretary at an oil company, cautioned her before the onset of the persecution. “He told me the spiritual system my mom was practicing would soon be suppressed,” she said.
Shortly thereafter, state media and television began broadcasting propaganda reports during prime time to turn public opinion against Falun Gong. The Chinese mainstream society, brainwashed after generations of suppression, was soon on board with the state-run narrative about the practice.
A file photo from 1998 shows Falun Gong practitioners meditating publicly in Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China, before the CCP launched its brutal campaign to persecute the spiritual group in 1999. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
“The communist regime said civil servants were prohibited from practicing; they would be fired and wouldn’t have a place to earn a living. For those who had been sentenced, they would also be fired from their job,” she said.
“The CCP doesn’t care about your life after that. Some were taken to the brainwashing centers to be ‘transformed.’ If they don’t transform, they have no place to survive.
“Once you’re affected by the CCP’s tyranny, you’ll quickly lose your family, your job, and all your relatives. No matter how high your social class is, you might become a prisoner at any time, and you may even be killed.”
The Crime of Belief
Chen said she was arrested for the first time in 2003 for the “crime” of distributing Falun Gong informational materials, such as CDs and brochures counteracting the CCP’s slanderous propaganda. She said no warrant is needed for police to enter a practitioner’s home, nor are charges needed to detain them—possession of Falun Gong materials is the key “evidence,” which can lead to multi-year prison sentences.
“They have no formalities. The police first arrest a person, then collect the so-called evidence,” she said. “These supposed pieces of evidence are like a rubber band that can expand or shrink to fit what they want to do with you. If they want to expand it, they’ll expand it. If they want to hide it, they’ll hide it. If they want to release it, they’ll release it. When they say it’s a political case, it’s even more serious than petty crimes. If they say there’s nothing wrong, then everything’s fine.
“Actually, the arrest process is also a looting process. The police usually confiscate money while making an arrest. The higher-ups want evidence, while the ones in the lower ranks want your valuables.”
Chen said her crime was that her thinking differed from the CCP’s. While in a detention center, a policeman told her: “You’re different from the other criminals. They did commit a crime. But for you, it’s just that your thinking was different from ours.”
She was tortured in prison before being released. Her second arrest was in 2013.
“The police put a black sack over my head,” she recalled. “I don’t know if they were worried that I would be recognized or that I would recognize them. When they stuffed me into a vehicle, I shouted.”
She was taken to Nanjing Detention Center, where she was again tormented before being released. Her third arrest, in 2014, led to a four-year prison term at Hebei Women’s Prison No. 13, in Shijiazhuang city, Hebei Province.
“Being imprisoned for four years made me experience darkness like never before, even though I resisted the persecution as much as I could,” she said.
During her multiple arrests, she said, large volumes of blood and DNA samples were taken from her. Such biometric sampling is uniform for Falun Gong and other religious detainees. According to the U.S. State Department’s “China 2020 Human Rights Report,” an NGO noted in a report that this procedure “could indicate evidence of illicit organ trafficking.”
The prisons, detention centers, and labor camps unlawfully holding Falun Gong adherents and other prisoners of faith aim to “reeducate” or “transform” them, with force and coercion, to extract a “guarantee to stop practicing.”
A painting depicts the “tiger bench,” an infamous torture method commonly used to persecute Falun Gong adherents. The torture inflicts severe, prolonged pain that can make a victim lose consciousness. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
During her detention, Chen went on a hunger strike to protest her unlawful arrest. As a result, she was force-fed several times, with each session lasting two to three hours. She was also torturously tied to a “tiger bench” and had tubes rammed through her nose, causing considerable bleeding and vomiting.
Other routine tortures included depriving her of sleep, not allowing her to use the bathroom or wash, coercing criminal inmates to choke her unconscious or beat her head against a wall, and more.
“None of the torture could change me,” she said. “What really destroyed my will was the officials making things difficult for other prisoners who sympathized with me. Someone was reprimanded and punished by many supervising policemen for sending me two lucky clovers to try to comfort me.”
The time finally came when Chen heard beatings from the corridor outside her cell, and under the pleading of other prisoners, she caved and signed a statement saying she would give up her faith—an act she describes as a form of spiritual death.
“At that moment, I really felt that a part of me was dying,” she said. “My mind was very slow to react, and I started to look like a walking corpse. I felt like the current world was a living hell, with its existence rooted in the varying degrees of ignorance of and submission to communism.”
Without her faith, she said, life was “meaningless and worthless.” Moreover, she was forced to endlessly repeat her condemnation of Falun Gong, reasserting her guarantee in daily “reeducation” sessions.
After four years of “hell,” Chen was released.
Freedom at Last
Chen was extremely lucky in that her relatives, including her mother and young son, had made it overseas and reached out to officials in the United States and Canada to bring political pressure to bear on the prison where she was incarcerated.
Such international exposure would embarrass the CCP on the global stage, so it’s likely that prison authorities dared not kill her or harvest her organs, nor harm her too severely, for fear of being held accountable. The vast majority of prisoners of faith, however, lack such international support and suffer horrors beyond imagination.
Chen Yinghua’s mother, Huang Jinling, held a press conference on April 14, 2014, for the first time in front of the Chinese Consulate in Canada in order to rescue her, calling, “Help my daughter.” At that time, Chen had been on a hunger strike for 32 days in prison and was dying. (Wu Weilin/The Epoch Times)
After her release, Chen obtained a visa and traveled to Canada in 2019, where she eventually became a refugee. On the flight, she suddenly experienced what it meant to be truly free.
Upon reuniting with her family in Canada, her son didn’t recognize her, as so many years had passed, and Chen saw that her own mother had aged prematurely.
Chen sent some photos back to practitioners in China, and they replied: “You’re free now. We really envy you.”
Chen Yinghua condemns the CCP’s persecution of Falun Gong in front of the Chinese Consulate in Calgary, Canada, on July 17, 2020. (Courtesy of Minghui.org)
The persecution is vast in scale, and Chen’s account exposes but a fraction of it. The persecution at large remains obscured by CCP censorship and those willing to toe the party line.
Warning the world from her home in Calgary, Chen said: “Living in Canada, you can feel that this is a place for humans to live in. In China, it’s not a place for humans to live in. That place is hell. There are people in that place too, but they don’t dare to say they’re humans because there are ‘beasts’ waiting on the sides. This is how evil it is.
“If people are not able to take action to resist and push back against the CCP, what the Chinese people are facing today will be everyone else’s tomorrow.”
Jocelyn Neo and Arshdeep Sarao contributed to this report.Taking You There: The Glory of Albert Bierstadt: ‘Among the Sierra Nevada, California’
Have you ever had a painting show up at different times in your life when you needed it most?
At Penn State in 1967, in the auditorium for Professor Jim Lord’s art history survey class, a large screen spanned the width of the stage. He would flash up slides from different artistic eras—some older, then more modern pieces. Some of the abstract art with splotched canvases were forgettable.
One day he put up a painting by Albert Bierstadt. It remained on the screen longer than the others, giving 500 students a chance to drink it in. It was the most lifelike and immediately fulfilling piece of art I had ever seen. After a few more moments, Mr. Lord said that it was quite massive, so its presentation on his big screen did it justice. It made me feel something I had not known was within me. It reached into my soul and took me there, to the heart of the Sierra Nevada mountains in California.
Taking You There
Some 60 years after Lewis and Clark’s expedition reached the Pacific Ocean, Albert Bierstadt found himself among those wild western mountains and he was enthralled. He created a scene to capture the loveliest aspects of nature. He found just the right pieces, and with his extraordinary imagination, fit them together perfectly. The greatest impact is on the fortunate who stand right before it. With his detailed brushstrokes, he gave life to every facet of the painting.
The massive canvas could have been divided into separate, smaller paintings, each with its own story. Yet these images blend together and are overpowering: white-capped mountain peaks, descending snowfields, swirling clouds, craggy cliffs with cascading waterfalls, mist moving over a high mountain lake, droplets sprinkling down giving a glimmer to its surface, the coolness of the wind winding through the valley floor, and then a dozen ducks and deer posed serenely at the water’s edge, sheltered by centuries-old trees.
The eyes cannot move fast enough, or slowly enough, to take in the majestic slopes and scintillating sky in a single viewing. The lake’s reflection only enhances the splendor from above. Your head swivels left and right. You stand farther back and then move up close to where you can breathe in the forest air, hear its sounds, and revel in this place, declaring the timelessness and the glory and grandeur of nature.
Following the Painting
From a working-class neighborhood in Philadelphia, I had never been west of the Mississippi, and hardly west of the Susquehanna. I added a line to my life’s to-do list. Someday, I would walk the path to that lake and look up at those mountains.
In 1971, I was in training in the FBI before there was an FBI Academy at Quantico, Virginia. Classes were held in the Old Post Office in Washington, D.C. Arduous studies and masses of new information kept 30 fit and healthy trainees under the gun. On lunch breaks, my classmates strolled the nearby streets of the nation’s capital, but I had something else in mind.
The painting I so wanted to see was at the Smithsonian’s Portrait Gallery several blocks away. On our second day of classes, I found my feet beating a path to that building. I took the broad marble steps two at a time to an alcove, where on the right, were the Sierra Nevadas in all their glory.
If you have a painting that curators know is worth more than a few moments of your time, they place a bench nearby for you to sit and ponder. Over several weeks, I nearly carved out a spot there.
Midway through the last month of training, we received orders for our first office assignments. I was gleeful when mine was Los Angeles. In a month I was there, and for all of 1972, fighting crime, working undercover as a Black Panther, helping solve the second airplane hijacking—learning the trade I would ply for nearly three decades.
A good friend from my days at Villanova Law coincidentally moved to the same city. In the summer, we took a week off and drove north—the destination, his cousins in Seattle. But we would pass close enough to the Sierra Nevadas to veer off to the east. In my brand-new Datsun 240 Z, I felt I was driving to hallowed ground.
For most fine landscape artists, there is no single place to stand and paint. Rather, they will pick the best location they can find, with towering peaks, high waterfalls, lakes, denizens of the forest in tranquil terrain, and synthesize it all into a memorable image.
Steering on serpentine roads with views to valleys and vistas at higher elevations gave all the perspective needed for a beating heart to revel in. I could imagine Bierstadt standing before a glistening lake composing his magnum opus. The aromas of the forest, chirping birds, water lapping at the shoreline, a gentle breeze through the trees—and all of it melodic, like notes of music. Later, the artist would play them out as he orchestrated his visual symphony in a studio far away. He captured the power of the panorama, the nuances of nature, and the wonders of the wilderness.
The Painting Helps the FBI
From the mid-1970s through the 1980s, I was assigned to the Washington Field Office as a Cold Warrior with foreign counterintelligence expertise. On a special squad with the goal of recruiting Soviet intelligence officers, my undercover role required me to meet a second secretary attaché from the Soviet Embassy. This was his own undercover position, because he was actually a captain in the KGB.
A complex scam put me in his path so he would report that it was he who had found me, as opposed to his being the target of the FBI. For months I met with my new friend, Vladimir, every other Tuesday for drinks after work at Chadwicks in Old Towne Alexandria, Virginia. Gaining personal stories for personality analysis was the focus for profiling our subjects. I had formulated three questions to assess our targets: What makes him laugh? What makes him cry? And does he love his wife? The answers were crucial, and the last one was the most difficult to learn. If a Russian chose to defect, would he bring his loving wife with him to start a new life, or would defection be his excuse to leave her behind?
After a few months, it was time for me to revisit Mr. Bierstadt’s greatest achievement. But, oh no, the painting was gone! In my place of rejuvenation from grueling hours and job pressure was an empty alcove. A sign said it was on loan to another museum.
It was in Paris for three months as part of an exhibition, “A New World: Masterpieces of American Painting, 1760–1910.” But it was coming back to Washington and to the Corcoran Gallery of Art, right across from the White House.
I consulted my squadmates about my plan to invite Vlad and his wife, Galena, to the exhibition with my wife and me. We could have dinner and make an evening of it.
Naysayers around the conference table asked what could be gained. Wasn’t only Vlad the target? Who cared about his wife? Besides, they said, he would turn down the invitation. “Russians don’t do American art,” and I was “barking up the wrong tree.” My view was different.
I went to the exhibition the day it opened and learned about the pieces on display. I bought the large coffee-table book with all the color images. Studying it was my homework so I could be a docent for my Russian couple. While much of the art had been ribboned off to keep the patrons back, “Among the Sierra Nevada, California” not only had no ribbon but there was also a two-step stool right in front so visitors could get up close.
For Tuesday’s after-work drinks, I brought my highest level of enthusiasm and invited Vlad and his wife to the exhibition. I said the Soviets see too little of America with their restrictions on travel. Besides, I wanted our wives to meet.
What could he say? We set it up for the next Tuesday.
We started with dinner at Chadwicks, and then drove across the 14th Street Bridge to the Corcoran. Evenings brought a higher class of clientele, with suits and ties and well-dressed ladies. We strolled the gallery, and I told Vlad the history of several pieces. He translated for Galena. She had a halting knowledge of English, but was getting along well with my wife.
Then came the turn to the broad gallery with Albert Bierstadt’s masterpiece at the far end. We admired Asher B. Durand’s “Kindred Spirits,” and a cowboy scene by Frederic Remington. Russians, Vlad told me, had heard all about the “Wild West.” Then Galena looked down the long carpet and saw the object of my own affection.
She kept her eyes fixed on it, starting a slow walk toward it from 30 feet away. I tugged on Vlad’s sleeve and my wife followed.
Within a few feet of the painting, she stopped. She looked up to the left, then the right, and then around to all four corners. Her eyes slowly covered the full acreage of the 6-by-10-foot painting, seeming even larger in its ornate frame. Her breath was taken away.
She moved to the stool with no hesitation and took a step up. Her nose was inches from the canvas. She raised a foot to the top of the stool. Her head was abuzz with the enormity of it all.
Careful not to lose her balance on the small perch, Galena did a slow turn so her back was to the painting. She didn’t focus on the long gallery in front of her, although by now 50 people were staring at this short woman, completely captivated by a work of art.
She arched her back and lifted her chin until her eyes were looking above and behind her, upside down, at the towering mountains and radiant sky of the painting. She raised her arms from her sides, palms up, as a pastor leading his flock to sing a hymn on Sunday morning.
Vladimir was as embarrassed as a Russian diplomat could be, but his love for his wife compelled him not to interrupt her moment.
Galena spoke words that others might have thought were too audacious to proclaim out loud. Head back, arms still up, she announced: “I feel it. I want to be there. I am there!”
It was such a shocking display of genuineness. A ripple of light laughter, and then applause ran through the crowd. Everyone’s eyes were on little Galena, a woman in rapture.
The moment was over and I helped her down. A flustered Vlad, his face drained, but resigned to what had happened, said, “You must forgive my wife. Sometimes she talks outside of herself.”
He put his arms around her, as if to shield her, but also to comfort her as they slowly walked away, her eyes still glazed over.
One must understand the Soviet Union, where all large pieces of art were dedicated to “The Worker’s Paradise” and “Heroes of the Revolution,” anything to promote the Communist Party. They would have no grand display of nature to revel in. Plus, their internal controls would never have allowed Galena’s outburst, which Vlad knew well. What he didn’t know was the ultimate assessment of my intelligence target from this outing—he loved his wife dearly. With her feelings on her sleeve, and her husband’s reaction, it was more than I could hope to have learned.
Wayne A. Barnes was an FBI agent for 29 years working counterintelligence. He had many undercover assignments, including as a member of the Black Panthers. His first spy stories were from debriefing Soviet KGB defectors. He now investigates privately in South Florida.Home-Schooled 22-Year-Old Is the Youngest Person in the UK to Get PhD in Astrophysics
A 22-year-old who was home-schooled by his father has become the youngest person in the UK to hold a Ph.D. in astrophysics.
Imran Nasim completed his Ph.D. at the University of Surrey, in Guildford, England, just four years after getting a first-class honors degree in math and physics.
The young doctor has long-term plans to open his own laboratory and go into medicine to help people; more specifically, cancer research.
Nasim, from Burgess Hill, West Sussex, will be pursuing his three-year post-doctorate study on an aggressive type of kidney cancer at Harvard University.
A talented young lad, Nasim was doing A-level work at age 12 and had enrolled for a degree course with an open university at the age of 14. He wanted to pursue a career in medicine earlier but settled for astrophysics when no university would let him use their laboratory until he turned 18.
Nasim’s doctoral research on supermassive black holes has been published in the New York Times alongside findings from NASA scientists.
He said: “So in the universe, we expect there to be massive black holes at the center of galaxies. I was looking at what happens when two galaxies collide and more specifically the gravitational waves that are emitted.
“So the things I study are galactic, which means they are massive and happen over millions of years.
“I see myself turning towards something more tangible, where I can make a difference to people’s lives. Especially considering what has happened over last year with the global pandemic.
“All the skills and techniques I have learned in the field of astrophysics will help me in the future.
“The research position at Harvard is for three years, to study TRCC (Translocation Renal Cell Carcinoma), an aggressive type of kidney cancer.
“Eventually I would like to open my own lab and go into the therapeutic side of things.
“This way I will be able to make a bigger difference in people’s everyday lives.”
Despite the hardcore study and research schedule during the past four years, Nasim balanced his days and weeks to find some time to relax and do other things.
Nasim said: “The hardest thing was producing the research paper, the methodology and all the graphs. I reckon I spent about 20 months producing the research paper working on average 50 to 60 hours a week.
“You know, a Ph.D. is an independent project, so you don’t have a deadline, which means you have to discipline yourself.
“But my undergraduate degree at the Open University has really helped me prepare because a lot of the work is independent.
“In my spare time, I like to play tennis and chess, and pick up the guitar now and then to get my mind off work.”
Growing up, Nasim was home-schooled by his father, Tariq, who has been a tutor for children of all ages for over 30 years.
Nasim said: “My dad teaches a variety of subjects from English, math, sciences, history, and geography, and so [he] decided it would be easier to home-school me. It’s sort of like building a house, because if the foundations are not strong then it collapses.
“I started to take a few undergraduate modules when I was 14 and really enjoyed them, so I contacted the open university and the rest is history.”
But Nasim is not the only one to have received his father’s tuition and achieve academic heights. Both his older brothers and three sisters have degrees under their belts.
His older sister Amreen, 30, has a Ph.D. in neuroscience, and his brother Adam, 26, is in line to get his in mathematics.
“They’re looking forward to seeing what I do next,” Nasim said.
Epoch Times staff contributed to this report.
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterButterfly Visits Dad After Daughter’s Death, Inspires Him to Raise Monarchs in Her Memory
A week after his youngest daughter’s funeral, Frank O’Donnell spotted a black and orange monarch butterfly in the backyard of the family home in North Providence, Rhode Island.
This was a moment that spoke to him, and it echoed memory of his daughter, Keri.
“I’ve never seen a butterfly stay still that long,” he recalled.
(Right) Frank O’Donnell’s late daughter Keri; (Left) a monarch butterfly. (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
This encounter led Frank to eventually raise butterflies in his backyard, sending spare milkweed seeds to anyone else compelled to help these endangered insects thrive in the wild.
Frank explained to The Boston Globe that this species of butterfly has become intrinsically connected to his memory of Keri.
“Monarchs, to me, are Keri,” he said. “I love seeing the other butterflies too, but the monarchs are what reminds me of her.”
At age 15, Keri died in a road traffic accident in July 2010. A minivan tire blew out while she was driving to the beach with her sister and three friends, sending the van careening off the highway.
In his grief, that moment when the monarch stayed with him made a deep impression; orange was one of Keri’s favorite colors.
Frank was then inspired by a friend to plant milkweed in his yard—a plant upon which monarchs lay their eggs. The garden concept turned more concrete when a friend gifted the O’Donnells an angel statue. Keri’s Garden memorial took shape.
A butterfly larva and several cocoons in the enclosure Frank built. (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
Eventually moving the garden to the O’Donnells’ new home in Jamestown, Frank installed a sunlit mesh enclosure in his shed to raise several dozen monarch larvae, collected from Keri’s Garden, a friend’s garden, and Monarch Watch, a nonprofit conservation group.
Over the enclosure, he hung a photo of Keri.
On a diet of milkweed stalks, Frank’s larvae grew into caterpillars, then chrysalises. Of these, within a few weeks, 27 became butterflies, and they were released into the yard—from which they would eventually embark on their 3,000-mile migration to the fir forests of central Mexico.
Besides butterflies, Keri’s Garden attracted a host of other creatures, including blue jays, which also sparked memories of Keri in his mind.
Several monarch butterflies after emerging from the larva state. (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
He set up feeders, claiming that the birds and butterflies brought color “when there was no color anywhere else.”
When it came to harvesting the milkweed pods, Frank realized he had seeds to spare. With his daughter’s memory in mind (and the fate of monarchs), he began posting seed packets to anyone who wanted them.
Requests came in from all 50 states.
“I don’t want to speak for someone who is not here, but I think [Keri] would be happy,” Frank told WPRI. “I would be happier if we weren’t doing this, but we are kind of keeping her alive.”
Keri O’Donnell’s garden memorial (Courtesy of Frank O’Donnell)
Frank told The Epoch Times that he has since run out of milkweed seeds, but has pledged to add names to a waiting list for his next batch in the fall.
The journey that began with Keri’s Garden has made him a more spiritual person, Frank reflected.
“I honestly do believe that she’s around,” he told The Boston Globe. “Every once in a while, you’ve got like a little tingle and you know, it’s just like, somebody is paying attention.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterPet owners may see their cat's fat belly as cute, but being overweight increases their risk of disease, pain, and premature death. (Elizaveta Galitckaia/Shutterstock)
Overweight Cats Risk Serious Disease
Q: My cat Fred’s fat underbelly swings when he walks. I think it’s cute, but his veterinarian says he needs to lose weight. What’s wrong with a cat being overweight?
A: Fred has lots of company: The Association for Pet Obesity Prevention reports that 60 percent of U.S. cats are overweight or obese.
That statistic isn’t surprising, since most domestic cats live sedentary indoor lives where eating is the most exciting activity of the day. High-carbohydrate, calorie-dense kibble is freely available in most homes, and cats are allowed to feast whenever they wish.
Contrast that to cats living in the wild, where these solitary hunters eat small rodents and birds—meals that are low in carbohydrates and high in protein. Because only 10 percent of their 100 to 150 daily hunting attempts are successful, they must actively hunt six to eight hours every day.
While you see Fred’s fat belly as cute, being overweight increases his risk of disease, pain, and premature death.
Overweight cats are prone to diabetes, osteoarthritis, and back pain. Often they can’t even reach around to groom themselves. In addition, overweight cats are more likely to develop urinary disorders, breathing difficulties, heart problems, and cancer.
When they are 8 to 12 years old, obese cats are 2.8 times more likely to die than cats of healthy weight.
To help Fred lose weight, decrease his calorie intake and help him become more active.
Read labels to choose low-calorie food, or ask Fred’s veterinarian to recommend an appropriate diet. Use a measuring cup or kitchen scale to accurately apportion his food.
Cats meow when they want attention, but many people misunderstand and give their cats food instead. When Fred meows, cuddle and play with him until he’s had his fill of affection.
Encourage him to be more active. In one study, increasing playtime by only 10 to 15 minutes a day helped cats lose weight.
In one study, increasing playtime by only 10 to 15 minutes a day helped cats lose weight. (VICUSCHKA/Shutterstock)
Offer Fred places to climb and jump, and rotate his toys to enhance their appeal. Walk him outside on a leash, and consider offering him an outdoor cat enclosure.
Hide small amounts of food throughout your home, changing locations frequently so he has to hunt for his food. Put kibble into food puzzles and incorporate his food ration into games you play together.
I predict that even when he’s lost the necessary weight, you’ll still find him adorable.
Q: Why are my dog Bear’s teeth worn down?
A: If all of Bear’s teeth are worn, he may have played with a few too many tennis balls. Even the clean nylon fuzz that covers tennis balls is abrasive, but when the ball rolls along the ground and picks up grit, it acts like sandpaper and wears down the enamel even more.
If only Bear’s small front teeth, the incisors, are worn, he may have been chewing on himself because he was itchy. The incisors are intended to nibble the last scraps of meat off bones, but if Bear eats regular dog food, his incisors should look normal.
On the other hand, if he’s experienced flea infestations, he may have been chewing on himself, trying to kill the fleas that make him itch. A topical or oral flea preventive can solve this problem.
If Bear is chewing on himself because allergic skin disease is making him itch, talk with your veterinarian about allergy treatment.
Adjacent to the incisors are the canine teeth, the fangs that grasp and hold prey and other objects. Behind the canines are the premolars and molars that form a serrated line that resembles pinking shears. These teeth are admirably suited for cutting and crushing food.
If Bear is instead carrying and chewing ice cubes or rocks, these teeth may be worn and even fractured.
Lee Pickett, VMD, practices companion animal medicine in North Carolina. Contact her at AskTheVet.pet. Copyright 2021 Lee Pickett, VMD. Distributed by Creators.comHousehold Habits to Teach Your Children
While it may seem like a long way off, the little humans you live with and nurture are someday going to fledge the nest and find a nest of their own. When they do, it’d be nice if they knew their way around a washing machine. Here are some habits you can teach your children starting now.
Nighttime Tidy Up
Before everyone heads off to bed, rally the troops to get the dishes into the dishwasher, the couch straightened, the shoes put in the closets, the coats hung up, the counters wiped clean, the garbage taken out, the laundry put away … Basically, put the house back in order and ready for the next day.
Teaching your children to participate in this nightly ritual will instill a valuable habit that they’ll take into adulthood. This simple habit is chock-full of character-building mojo as they sacrifice now for rewards later, diligently work when they don’t feel like it, consider other members of the household, and cooperate with the rest of the family to get the job done.
Waste Management
What day does the garbage get picked up? How about recycling? Who’s in charge of managing the garbage receptacles in your house? If it’s you or your spouse, consider outsourcing the job to a capable child.
Let the child know what night the garbage needs to be taken to the curb each week. Put them in charge of emptying all the trash cans at home, replacing the garbage bags, bringing the cans to the curb, and returning the cans to their place after the garbage truck has come.
Unloading the Dishwasher
Are you the only one in your house who knows where everything goes in the kitchen? If so, that’s a huge red flag that your children over the age of, say, 2 need more responsibility.
Emptying a clean dishwasher and putting away the dishes properly is a great example of the type of effort it takes to keep a household running. Care for each item must be taken, everything must find its way to its proper place, and the job is done when it’s done. As a bonus, the next time someone needs a spoon for her yogurt, she’ll know just where to find it.
Make Your Own Bed
Do you make your kids’ beds every day? If they are old enough to dress themselves, they can make their own bed. (If they’re not, they can help.)
Many adults haven’t embraced the benefits of this habit, but a made bed sets the tone for the day. It’s one of the first things you do, offering you an easy win before the day has hardly begun. A made bed instantly makes the entire room look neater and cleaner. At the end of the day, it’s another reminder that regardless of how it all went, you started off right and can now get into a nice, neat bed.
Dusting
Even a toddler can help get a handle on the dusting around the house. Swiffer cloths or simple rags are perfect to hand off and let the kids do their best with the surfaces of the house. The older the child, the more capable he or she will be, but every little bit helps when it comes to dusting.
Vacuuming
Along those lines, it’s not that hard, even for a preschooler, to learn to use the vacuum. Put your child in charge of vacuuming certain rooms consistently or make running the vacuum a part of the nightly tidy-up if that works better.
Clean the Bathrooms
Ah, the most glamorous of the household chores. One way to encourage your children to not make a total disgrace of the bathroom is to put them in charge of cleaning it each day. Perhaps young children could begin by using natural and safe cleaning fluids like a mixture of vinegar, water, and lemon juice. Kids can manage towels and toiletries, and wipe down counters, sinks, tubs, and yes, toilets.
Do the Laundry
Oh, the laundry. Is there a more relentless household chore? As your kids grow, make sure they put away their own clothes properly each day and are competent in working the washing machine, the dryer, and even the iron.
Take Initiative
Finally, you’ll have hit platinum-level parenting when you see your children begin to take initiative to better some part of the household. Perhaps they simply see a messy surface and take it upon themselves to clean it up. Perhaps they want to plant a garden and take the initiative to make that happen. Perhaps you wake up early one weekend morning and find them cleaning out your garage.
Encourage your children to take ownership and initiative in the care, maintenance, and improvement of the home you share together. Each task, chore, and project will instill in them the skills, standards, and good habits necessary to take good care of their own home someday.Dear Next Generation: ‘Look for simple interactions where you can create a wonderful memory for someone’
You can make a positive difference to people every day. Look for simple interactions where you can create a wonderful memory for someone.
When a school year or semester is over, take 30 seconds to thank your favorite teacher for their work. When you leave a coffee shop, take 10 seconds to thank a barista who has made a great latte or given excellent service. When someone makes the stupidest driving decision ever, disrupting your drive, smile, shrug your shoulders, and wave (five fingers). If you read something you liked, or learned from, write or email the person who wrote it a thank you.
Over the decades, I’ve seen neighbors working on big yard projects. I will pull over, roll down the window, and say: “Wow, you’re doing a lot of work, but it’s paying off. It really looks fantastic.” The smile you receive will light up your day.
Now that I am older and have a few more pennies, I will give money or gifts to people at times. Last week, I bought a bouquet of flowers for the doctor who gave me my COVID shot, saying thank you. Twice a year, I will stop where someone has been regularly twirling a sign for some business. I will hand them $20, tell them I admire their work habits and know that they will be successful in the years ahead. Then I usually have to lift their jaw off the ground.
Saying to someone something like “Hey, that blue shirt really looks good on you” can really improve someone’s day.
I like to check out items at antique malls. A few years ago, I got my coffee at the same place every day, so I got to know some of the baristas. One of them was an avid horse rider, performing at shows and the like. I saw a small, unique (and cheap) horse item at a store one day, and purchased it for her. When I got my coffee the next day, she wasn’t working, so I asked someone to put it in her box. Sometime in the future, as I pulled up to the drive-up window, she was there, and she just lit up.
“You have no idea how much I appreciated your gift,” she said. “I was having the worst day and came to work with a horrible attitude. When I saw your present, my day turned around 180 degrees.” By that time, I had honestly forgotten that I had given her something.
When you get the mindset of looking for opportunities to make a positive difference in people’s lives, one can find countless opportunities that don’t cost any money, opportunities that will really mean a lot to people.
Tom Tangen, Washington
________________
As a professor, I try to instill in my students the profound impact of work experience in helping to shape work ethic in the classroom and in the field. Often enough, students get too caught up in their grades or grade point averages and fail to realize that experience matters when they apply for jobs after graduation.
Whether it be volunteering or paid service, there is no substitute for “real-world experience” as it serves to instill confidence in the individual and gives them a sense of purpose.
All the best,
Dr. Stephen P. Sowulewski, Virginia
____________________
What advice would you like to give to the younger generations?
We call on all of our readers to share the timeless values that define right and wrong, and pass the torch, if you will, through your wisdom and hard-earned experience. We feel that the passing down of this wisdom has diminished over time, and that only with a strong moral foundation can future generations thrive.
Send your advice, along with your full name, state, and contact information to NextGeneration@epochtimes.com or mail it to: Next Generation, The Epoch Times, 229 W. 28th St., Floor 7, New York, NY 10001The Simple Joy of Arranging Flowers
Tips for building a beautiful early summer flower arrangement at home
One of the habits I most looked forward to in becoming an adult was buying my own flowers for my dining room table. I remember cashing my first paycheck as a green 22 year old, freshly out of college and starting my first job. I went straight to the grocery store and purchased sparkling water, brie, French bread, and a bouquet of sunflowers.
Every morning that week, those fresh flowers greeted me cheerily as I readied for my day. I loved the way they seemed to smile at me from my thrifted table, shining brightly in the vase I had bought for less than a dollar. Having fresh flowers felt like a mark of domestication: Those blooms turned my apartment into a home.
That was nearly 10 years ago, long before I dreamed of starting Juneberry Floral Co., my local flower business, or arranging flowers for anyone but myself. In those early years of flower buying, when my budget was tight, I learned a lot about improvising with a few bundles of cheaper flowers to create looks that I liked. I knew from memory how much different blooms cost at the market, and loved piecing together different flowers to make something new.
Hydrangeas make a lovely base for a simple summer bouquet. (Nailia Schwarz/Shutterstock)
Most of all though, I learned about the joy and sense of accomplishment that comes from creating simple, at-home floral arrangements to enjoy with a cup of tea at the table.
Early summer is abundant with a variety of flowers and blooms. Markets and home gardens alike blossom with lilies, foxgloves, daisies, roses, and my personal favorite, hydrangeas. Creating a bouquet for your own kitchen table (or a friend’s!) is full of possibilities.
I love for my summer arrangements to reflect the way summer feels: simple, lush, and whimsical. Here are a few flowers that, when brought together, make a gorgeous summer hydrangea bouquet.
Hydrangeas
These summer blooms come in a variety of colors. My husband happened to be at our local plant nursery during a summer sale a few years ago and bought me 10 bushes, so my house is covered in hydrangeas in June and early July. The color of some species of hydrangeas, such as the bigleaf, depends on the pH level of your soil. By adjusting the levels of your soil, you can actually turn your hydrangeas from blue to pink, or vice versa. Blue hydrangeas have to grow in an acidic soil, with a pH of 5.5 or lower; pink flowers should be grown in soil with a pH of 6.0 to 6.2; and purple flowers will bloom if the pH is somewhere in between.
Whether you’ve grown your own hydrangeas or purchased them from a grocery store, cut them at an angle at least two inches from the bottom of a stem before placing them in water. Hydrangea stems can be tough, so using shears or a knife makes the job easiest. Then, snip off all the leaves below the bloom—these leaves rot quickly when placed below the water line.
To make your hydrangeas last, consider purchasing a jar of alum, a pickling spice you can buy from the grocery store. After you cut the stems, dip them quickly into the jar of alum before placing them in your vase. The alum keeps the stem of the hydrangea open, so it will bloom inside for a longer period of time.
(Note: Be cautious if you have pets. Ingesting large amounts of hydrangeas is deemed harmful.)
Lavender makes a whimsical accent for a summer bouquet. (Daria Medvedeva/Shutterstock)
Lavender
This is my absolute favorite early summer bloom to work with. Not only does lavender smell incredible, but some varieties grow tall and give off a whimsical look in a bouquet, especially when mixed with eucalyptus or mint.
My favorite lavender variety to work with is English Royal Purple Lavender. I grow them in my garden, where they have come back year after year, growing about two and a half feet in height. The lavender stops blooming when the weather gets too hot in late July and August, but in June, I love picking a few sprigs and adding them to my hydrangea bouquets. I like to cut the lavender at a different height from the hydrangea, and then spread it throughout the bouquet to give interest and definition.
I really enjoy using lavender as an accent, though it can also be dried in bunches—simply tie a small bunch together with twine at the stem, and hang upside down for a few weeks—and then used throughout the year as decoration. My grandmother always put dried crushed lavender into pouches to freshen her sock drawer.
Eucalyptus compliments nearly any flower it is in an arrangement with, and also looks elegant and sophisticated on its own. (New Africa/Shutterstock)
Greenery
My favorite part about June in Pennsylvania is how lush and green everything is. During this season, I love adding lots of greenery into my arrangements.
One of my favorite greens to use is eucalyptus, which can usually be purchased from any market or grocery store. Eucalyptus comes in several varieties—Silver Dollar, Baby Blue, and Willow are my favorites, but there are others as well—and complements nearly any flower it is in an arrangement with. It also looks elegant and sophisticated on its own, making it a perfect choice for the budget-conscious arranger.
Mint is my other favorite summer green to work with in an at-home bouquet. It’s an unexpected choice, but mint overruns my garden every summer, and I can only drink so much sweet tea, so I’ve put it to other uses in my bouquets. I love the fresh look mint brings to any arrangement, and it smells delightful. The stems aren’t long, but the bright color complements the vivid summer blooms. I use apple mint.
Mint is a fresh, unexpected choice, with a vivid color that complements summer blooms. (Zb89V/Shutterstock)
Arranging Tips
Once all the flowers have been cut and treated, my favorite part is arranging them in a vase. For hydrangeas, I love the simple, classic look of mason jars as a vase, but of course any vase will do. The hydrangeas should sit about 2 inches above the rim of the vase.
If I’m using a wide-rimmed vase, I like to first fill it with water, then create a grid using scotch tape, which will provide more structure for the hydrangeas. I personally prefer an odd number of hydrangeas in my bouquets—three, five, or seven—as it creates a pleasing triangular design.
Have fun arranging the greenery and lavender throughout the vase—hydrangeas are forgiving flowers to work with and almost always look beautiful.
Whether you are picking blooms from your own garden or purchasing from the market this summer, I hope you indulge in the life-giving pleasure of placing a bouquet on your kitchen table.
Rachael Dymski is an author, florist, and mom to two little girls. She is currently writing a novel about the German occupation of the Channel Islands and blogs on her website, RachaelDymski.comCommitting to a direction means another direction is left unexplored. This is the reality of our finite resources of time and energy. (George Rudy/Shutterstock)
Why ‘Having It All’ Is a Big Fat Lie
Ignoring that choice includes loss is a delusion that creates unneeded suffering
“I want it all, I want it all, I want it all, and I want it now.” These were the words of a television jingle I heard this weekend, just as I was contemplating a piece on the pressure we (both women and men) face to have it all.
Working with Jane, a mom and physician, I was struck by how tortured she was because she couldn’t spend as much time as she wanted to with her young child.
I wasn’t struck by the fact that time away from her child was painful, but rather by what seemed to be the real source of her suffering.
Specifically, she felt that she was supposed to be able to have the great she wanted as a doctor and also be able to be the loving and present mom to her child. As she saw it, she was doing something wrong because she couldn’t have both.
Another client, Rachel, told me that she wanted to have a more intimate relationship with her husband, to feel more connected. She talked about their less-than-juicy date-night dinners. She shared that her husband was upset because she left her phone on during their dinners in case the kids called (healthy ).
Apparently, as is usually the case, the tech interruptions were breaking the connection between them. She was in my office because she wanted me to design a strategy or digital program that would make it possible for her to be on call all the time to her family, and also intimately connected to her husband in their private time.
On another front, in just the same week, Peter was telling me about his of nine years. He shared that he was deeply nourished by the unconditional love and stability of their bond and how much he loved his life with his partner.
Simultaneously, he was unable to tolerate the fact that when he went to parties or was surrounded by new women, he couldn’t behave like a single person. He was at war internally with the idea that being in a monogamous and committed relationship would mean that his life felt constrained in certain other ways. But underlying his despair, the real suffering was once again coming from his that he shouldn’t have to give up anything he wanted.
And then there’s MK, a college student who is obsessively angry because of the deep confidence his have earned through their mastery in sport or other passions and academic pursuits.
MK acknowledges that he loves to socialize and party and that he’s chosen to spend his time doing just that, as opposed to achieving excellence. And yet again, this young man is confused and frustrated by my inability to devise a plan to give him the he wants and also the that comes with focused hard work, time, and effort.
We’re conditioned to believe that we should have it all—everything we want. Having it all in this society also means not having to give anything up.
Technology encourages this belief. With the touch of a button, we can, in fact, get a lot of things we want without much effort. and advertising also support our belief that everything is possible; if we don’t have everything we want, we need to try harder.
The powers that be want us to believe that we can have it all because it keeps us chasing the dream, a dream of endless acquiring and achieving. Ultimately, having it all (as an idea) is good for business while accepting not having it all is bad for the bottom line.
If we stop chasing it all, the profit margin shrinks.
When I told Rachel that being available 24/7 to her kids might mean not being as available to her husband, and perhaps not enjoying the intimacy she desired, she was disappointed and seemingly not convinced. Similarly, when I advised Peter that his choice to be in a committed relationship—and enjoy the jewels of such a choice—would mean that his experience of socializing would have to change and be perhaps less exciting than if he were single, it seemed as if he had never considered such a concept.
So too, when I laid out the hours that Jane’s career in New York required and juxtaposed that against her young daughter’s wake-and- schedule, she seemed to be seeing the information for the first time, as a scientist almost, recognizing the math of her reality, and thus the real truth of her choices.
Life has limitations, which we oddly aren’t taught. Accepting this truth, however, frees us from the fantasy that keeps us chasing and suffering.
When we believe that we can and should have it all, we end up paralyzed, stuck between choices, and unable to pull the trigger or settle into any path. We’re unwilling to accept the reality that, like it or not, choice involves loss, not occasionally, but always.
When we stick with our storyline that we are the problem, that we are why we can’t have everything we want, we actually end up with nothing. Loss and gain go hand in hand.
Furthermore, when we reject the fact that we have to give up something we want in order to get something we want, we deny ourselves the opportunity for self-compassion. Accepting the loss that comes with choice means also accepting the feelings that come with that loss. It means offering a place for the sadness or disappointment that comes as a result of not being able to enjoy that other path.
With every choice, one door opens and another closes. There is an experience of that door closing, which also needs to be included and treated with .
I often find myself simply saying “yes” to people who come to see me with such dilemmas of choice. Yes, it’s true that if you choose this you will not get to have that. The fact that you can’t figure out a way to have both doesn’t mean there’s something wrong with you; it means you’re living with the reality of being human.
There is only so much time, energy, , and for some of what we want—not all of it. Some wants, by their very nature, eliminate the possibility of other wants.
When I lay it out matter-of-factly in this way, people sometimes look at me as if I have three horns, as if they had never considered such a basic truth.
When we’re willing to accept that life includes non-negotiable limitations, then the value of the choices we make, the meaning in the path we do choose, increases exponentially.
Recognizing and being honest about what we get, and what we choose to give up, intensifies how much what we get actually matters to us.
It’s not your fault if you can’t have it all; it’s not a failing on your part. The idea that we should be able to get everything we want, have every experience we desire, is false.
It’s an idea that keeps us handcuffed, stuck, and suffering.
Time, energy, and attention are malleable at one level, in that they feel like they can expand and contract. But they’re also finite at another level. When we give something our time and attention, it means that we cannot give as much time and attention to something else we may also value.
These are the hard choices that come with life. Approaching our choices with a mature and sober sense of reality, one that takes into account the losses that all choices include, allows us to live a life of deeper intention and meaning. We can feel even more for what we do choose to experience.
When we stop busying ourselves with what we should have and what’s wrong with us that we can’t have it, we get on with the business of determining what we really want. We can choose what’s most important to us. Accepting the reality of choice and its partner, loss, encourages us to get clear about what we really want our life to be about and get on with living it.
Nancy Colier is a psychotherapist, interfaith minister, public speaker, workshop leader and author of “The Power of Off: The Mindful Way to Stay Sane in a Virtual World.” For more information, visit NancyColier.com.a cancer diagnosis can prompt us to reconsider what is important, like our relationships or art, and focus our attention there. (SeventyFour/Shutterstock)
5 Ways to Manage the Emotional Distress of Cancer
A new book provides useful guidance for how to deal with the emotional and social upheaval of cancer
The National Cancer Institute states that nearly 40 percent of men and women in the United States will receive a cancer diagnosis in their lifetime. Even during the pandemic, cancer was the leading cause of death around the world.
That means many people are dealing with treatment for this worrisome disease—including many of my friends and family members. While new treatments are giving people hope for greater longevity and even full recovery, the social and emotional toll of cancer is still severe. Right when cancer patients need calm clarity and social support for getting through treatment, they can have trouble finding either, compounding their suffering.
While no person’s experience of cancer is exactly the same as another’s, there are reactions that are common to many, write Elizabeth Cohn Stuntz and Marsha Linehan in the new book “Coping with Cancer.” These include difficult feelings such as fear, sadness, anger, and guilt; concerns about how the disease will change one’s life, job, or family relationships; and physical symptoms such as fatigue, pain, and loss of sleep. A patient’s constantly changing experience can breed uncertainty, too, exacerbating many of these reactions.
Drawing upon decades of research, practice with helping patients, and stories from patients (including the authors themselves), the book gives wise guidance on how to reduce stress, make better decisions, protect important relationships, and increase overall well-being while fighting off the disease—all of which can support a better prognosis, too. Based largely on Linehan’s model of dialectical behavior therapy, the authors offer several keys to coping with the physical, emotional, and social strains that cancer patients face. Here are a few of their recommendations.
Be Mindful and Accepting of Your Experience
Though some people believe there’s an ideal way to feel or behave when faced with cancer—upbeat, stoic, or defiant, for example—trying to fit someone’s ideal of how you should react or denying your own feelings is likely to backfire, write the authors. Instead, you should try practicing mindfulness—paying attention to your experience without judgment. This is a more effective way to understand your experience and your needs in any given moment.
“Your emotions, thoughts, and physical sensations offer valuable information. They can tell you what’s wrong and needs to be addressed as well as what’s going right that should be pursued,” write Stuntz and Linehan.
At the same time, being mindful can keep you from wallowing in negative emotions or ruminating about catastrophic possibilities. When you increase awareness of the fleeting nature of your thoughts, emotions, and physical sensations, it can create a little distance from them, opening the door to noticing positive experiences (or less bad experiences) when they occur. Savoring happy moments and small victories can provide a good counterpoint to the hard times, helping you to ride the waves of experience without being overwhelmed.
Finding some distance also allows you to notice patterns, including habits that might not be serving you.
“When you pay careful attention to the interplay between your emotions, your thoughts, and your body, you have the chance to understand your response and see where effective coping may be short-circuited and bring yourself back into balance,” write the authors.
If you accept that all feelings are valid, you can start to recognize where they come from and how to soothe them without repressing them. One method for helping with emotional upset is the practice of self-compassion. Showing yourself kindness and understanding for what you are going through, while recognizing that you are not alone in your suffering, can be a boon to your recovery.
According to the authors, “The goal is to try to coach yourself with the same warm, patient, and sensitive understanding you would give to a cherished loved one who is in a distressing situation.” That means acknowledging whatever experience you are having (for example, I feel pain in my chest right now and it’s worrying me), sending yourself soothing messages (even though this pain is hard, I’ve been through it before, and I know it will pass), and reminding yourself that you are not alone in your suffering (others have been through this too and survived).
People who are more self-compassionate tend to have less depression, anxiety, and fatigue and better quality of life when facing cancer, and generally tend to cope better under stressful conditions. Self-compassion may be particularly beneficial for keeping us as well as possible in trying circumstances.
Check the Facts and Question Distorted Thinking
When we are worried, it can often cause rumination—repetitive thoughts that disturb us and keep us up at night. This can lead to depression and other problems that can interfere with recovery.
As the authors note, people with cancer can succumb to distorted thinking patterns, such as “black-and-white” thinking or thinking in absolutes—for example, only focusing on bad news and ignoring progress, or telling yourself that you’ll never be able to work again and you’ll always be sick. To find a more balanced approach, the authors recommend that you question these types of thoughts by stepping back and examining them and, perhaps, challenging or reframing them. Recognizing the difference between facts and fear-based assumptions can help you interrupt distorted thinking and keep your mind from spinning out of control.
Questioning assumptions can be helpful when talking to doctors, too. For example, some people with cancer are afraid to confront their doctors with fears or doubts about treatment, worried they will offend their doctor and, possibly, lose an important ally in their care. But most doctors are trained to listen and educate patients about their options and expect questions. It’s important to express uncertainty while staying open to emerging information—even difficult facts about your care—to maintain a realistic view of your situation.
Ask for What You Want From Others … in a Kind Way
Support from others is key to healing from cancer. But sometimes cancer patients may feel reluctant to ask for help, especially if they tend to be “go it alone” types. Or they may fear that medical doctors or caretakers will not listen to them, making them feel angry for having reached out.
It’s important to find a balance between requesting help and demanding it from someone—especially from a caregiver who is already burdened. Asking for what you want clearly and confidently, explaining why you need the help, and appreciating the help you receive are all useful strategies for getting what you need from others to help you heal, the authors write.
Given that protecting a relationship with a health provider is paramount to many cancer patients, the authors give special attention to communicating with doctors, including this advice (using the acronym FAST):
Be F air: Validate your feelings and wishes as well as the other person’s.
air: Validate your feelings and wishes as well as the other person’s. A ssert: Don’t apologize for making a request, having an opinion, or disagreeing.
ssert: Don’t apologize for making a request, having an opinion, or disagreeing. S tick to your values: Make sure you are acting in a morally sound way.
tick to your values: Make sure you are acting in a morally sound way. Be Truthful: Don’t make excuses, lie, or act helpless when you’re not.
Keeping interactions with others kind, honest, and assertive is the best way to preserve relationships through a long treatment.
Connect to Meaning
While no one wants to suffer from cancer, it can be an opportunity to remember what is most important in life. Whether it’s your relationships with others, your work or creative endeavors, the beauty of the world around you, or your religious faith, you can take moments to appreciate the things of value to you and embrace opportunities to connect to them.
“Being clear about what sustains and matters to you can help you assess whether you’re living the way you want to or decide what if any changes you want to make to promote the more meaningful parts of life,” write Stuntz and Linehan.
Meaning in life is central to happiness, and finding meaning in the midst of suffering can help people stay more resilient as they go through trauma. Nurturing meaning in life could involve writing a gratitude letter to someone who made a difference to you, volunteering to help others suffering from cancer, or writing a song or poem. Whatever you do to find meaning, though, remember not to do it because you “should” or to fulfill someone else’s agenda, but because it truly helps sustain you.
While none of these strategies are foolproof, they can help people who are going through cancer manage, and that’s good to know. On the other hand, I would argue that this advice is useful for anyone going through difficult times, health-related or not. We could all be more mindful, offer ourselves more self-compassion, be better fact checkers, treat our support networks kindly, and search for meaning in life. The book, though geared to cancer survivors, really speaks to us all.
Jill Suttie, Psy.D., is Greater Good’s book review editor and a frequent contributor to the magazine. This article was originally published by the Greater Good online magazine.Stretching Can Increase Your Tolerance for Pain
The discomfort caused by stretching may trigger a reaction that reduces back pain, research suggests
To stretch or not to stretch?
Should you do it before or after exercise? Does it prevent or heal injuries? Stretching is always a hot topic. However, while it’s effective in improving flexibility, its usefulness in reducing pain is being questioned.
Back pain is one of the most prevalent health conditions in our society. Up to 80 percent of the population may suffer from it at least once in their lifetime. Many sufferers don’t improve after treatment. What makes treatments work or not? Answering this question could improve the quality of life of millions of people.
Health care professionals, including physiotherapists, often prescribe exercises, such as stretching, to reduce pain. It has long been accepted that stretching provides pain relief by increasing range of motion and decreasing muscle tone or tension, which gives the impression that there is less pain.
However, this perceived pain relief is rarely found to be directly associated with pain reduction. In fact, a recent study showed that increased flexibility was actually associated with a greater tolerance for pain, which occurs during stretching. It’s possible that stretching actually impacts pain perception by activating the areas in our central nervous system that modulate pain.
I am a professor in the physiotherapy program at Laval University and a researcher at the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Rehabilitation and Social Integration (CIRRSI) at the university. Together with students from Laval University and McGill University, I have just published new research on the effect of stretching on pain sensitivity: “Stretch-induced hypoalgesia: a pilot study” in the scientific journal Scandinavian Journal of Pain. Hypoalgesia is a decreased sensitivity to painful stimuli. Hypoalgesia can be induced by drugs, or be something as mild as rubbing a stubbed toe to make it hurt less.
For the study, we recruited 22 healthy adults who didn’t suffer from back pain. Each participant was asked to perform a stretch of the lumbar region (lower back), followed by a stretch of the forearm muscles. Participants were instructed to hold each stretch for three minutes to produce a moderate stretching sensation.
Stretching Produces Hypoalgesia
Before and after each exercise, we measured the pain sensitivity threshold for a muscle of the lower back (erectors of the lumbar spine) and a muscle of the forearm (wrist flexors) using an algometer.
An algometer is a measuring instrument equipped with a sensor that calculates the pressure required to produce a sensation we call a pain threshold. This way we can measure the modulation of pain sensitivity, or the change that stretching has on a pain threshold.
We calculated the modulation for each stretch on the extended area and on an area distant from the stretched muscles. A change recorded in an area remote from the stretch would suggest that the regions of the central nervous system that involve pain control were activated, and therefore that the stretch had a systemic effect.
We observed that both stretches produced hypoalgesia. As a result, participants could tolerate more pressure before reaching the pain sensitivity threshold. In other words, after the participants performed the stretches, the experimenter had to apply greater pressure to produce pain.
Following the wrist extension, stretch-induced hypoalgesia was restricted to the stretched area itself, while following the back flex, hypoalgesia was also present at a distance from the stretched area (the forearm).
The Brain Plays a Role?
Stretching isn’t the only type of exercise that produces hypoalgesia. Several studies have shown that aerobic exercise and exercise involving sustained muscle contractions also induce hypoalgesia.
These forms of exercise have received much more attention from the scientific community than stretching has, with some groups of researchers attempting to determine what mechanisms are at work. For example, it has been suggested that exercise-induced hypoalgesia involves the activation of—and interaction between—the opioid system (which includes three opioid receptors in the brain) and the endocannabinoid systems, which control pain.
In a recent review of research published in The Journal of Pain, the authors suggested that exercise-induced hypoalgesia could be explained by the unpleasant and even sometimes painful effect of these exercises. Indeed, we know that activating nociceptors (pain receptors) induces hypoalgesia by triggering systems that modulate pain, including opioids.
For example, holding a hand in a bucket filled with cold water produces an intense pain that induces systemic hypoalgesia. It’s possible that similar mechanisms could also explain our results, since stretching produces a sensation that is sometimes unpleasant and even painful.
The remote, and therefore potentially systemic effects, were only present following back stretching. We believe that stretching the back could involve stretching a larger mass of structures (muscles, ligaments, tendons, skin) than stretching the wrist, and could therefore produce a greater effect. These hypotheses should be tested in future studies.
Stretching Is Not a Panacea
The immediate benefits of stretching in people with back pain could be explained by the fact that regions in the body involved in pain modulation were stimulated. Exercise can also induce hypoalgesia. However, many people with chronic back pain benefit less from the hypoalgesia that is usually induced by exercise. This could be explained by differences in the functioning of regions in the central nervous system that are involved in pain control.
Back stretches may not benefit everyone who suffers from back pain. Severe back pain that persists over time is usually multifactorial, so general management by a health care professional, such as a physiotherapist, may be necessary to reduce or control the pain. Stretching is only one of the treatment tools available to improve one’s health condition and it isn’t a panacea.
Hugo Massé-Alarie is an assistant professor of physiotherapy at Université Laval in Canada. This article was first published on The Conversation.Top 10 Reasons to Eat Organic
Industrial agriculture takes a toll on our bodies—and our planet
Eating organic isn’t a fad. In fact, a 2019 report from the U.S. Department of Agriculture stated that sales from U.S. organic farms reached $9.9 billion, a 31 percent increase from 2016 and 2019. Whether you’re avoiding pesticides, looking for a healthier diet, or concerned about the environment, there is no shortage of reasons to eat organic foods. So if you’ve been on the fence looking at those greener organic pastures, wait no more. Here are 10 delicious reasons to take a bite of an organic apple today.
1. Environmental Health
According to Cornell entomologist David Pimentel, it’s estimated that only 0.1 percent of applied pesticides reach the target pests. The bulk of pesticides (99 percent) are left to impact the environment. Waterways and farmland are contaminated by chemical run-off from farms. Arguably one of the largest environmental disasters has been the loss of quality soil. Many organic farmers grow bio-diverse crops rather than the industrial monoculture model, which depletes the soil.
Organic management practices, such as crop rotation, substantially enhance soil quality and restore nitrogen and organic components. In short, chemically produced food is damaging our soil.
2. Safe Drinking Water
The more chemicals applied per acre, the greater the challenge in preserving water quality. The Dead Zone in the Gulf of Mexico, an area of low oxygen that can kill fish and marine life, is the most graphic example of the enormous harm caused when farm chemicals, flowing off of millions of acres, congregate in the mighty Mississippi. So, not only is chemically dependent agriculture damaging our drinking water, it’s also harming our waterways and oceans.
3. Health Risks
It should be no surprise that the chemical pesticides that kill off pests are also causing harm to your health. But it doesn’t just stop with harming you; pesticide, herbicide, and chemical fertilizer usage pose health risks to farmers and farm workers. Pesticides ingested by pregnant women have been linked to birth defects and deformities. Studies have also shown that some herbicides and pesticides stimulate the growth of breast cancer cells and cause mammary cancer in rats.
Organic crops cannot be grown with synthetic persistent chemicals, sewage sludge, irradiation, animal cloning, or genetic engineering. The USDA organic seal guarantees that farmers abide by these standards. By eating organic, you will dramatically reduce the amount of pesticide residue you ingest on a daily basis, thus reducing your risk for diseases.Quercetin: What It Is and Why You Need It
This well-known and widely studied flavonoid is a potent antioxidant with several therapeutic actions
Flavonoids are one of nature’s many therapeutic gifts. Widely found in fruits and vegetables, these phenolic substances have antioxidant properties that protect cells from free radical damage. One of the most well-known and studied flavonoids is quercetin, a flavonol mostly found in onions, berries, citrus fruits, broccoli, and grapes.
A potent antioxidant, quercetin boasts anti-inflammatory, anti-hypertensive, antiobesity, and anti-atherosclerotic actions. Since free radicals figure into the development of diseases, quercetin holds promise for benefitting conditions such as high blood pressure, vascular disorders, and metabolic syndrome, notes an overview published in Pharmacognosy Reviews in 2016. Here is compelling evidence of the health benefits of quercetin.
Potential Anti-Diabetes Aid
The development of Type 2 diabetes has been linked to oxidant stress caused by an unhealthy diet. Toona sinensis leaves, which are rich in quercetin, may reduce the risk of diabetes by reducing oxidative stress in the liver.
A topical compound containing substances such as quercetin, ascorbyl palmitate, and vitamin D3 was formulated to reduce the oxidative stress contributing to peripheral diabetic neuropathy. A preliminary study in 2005 showed that the compound may safely relieve the symptoms of diabetic neuropathy and enhance quality of life.
Quercetin displayed protective effects in the kidneys and liver of obese animal models with Type 2 diabetes. Together with quinic acid, quercetin also helped ameliorate hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and insulin resistance in diabetic rats.
Protection From DNA Damage
A 2011 study investigated the potential protective effects of quercetin against DNA damage and oxidative stress induced by methylmercury in animal subjects. For over 45 days, animal models were orally treated with methylmercury and the flavonoid with doses reflecting human exposure. The team then measured DNA damage in liver cells called hepatocytes and peripheral leukocytes (white blood cells).
The results revealed that methylmercury reduced the concentration of glutathione in the body by 17 percent and caused DNA damage to liver and blood cells. With quercetin, no such effects manifested. “In summary, our results indicate that consumption of quercetin-rich foods may protect mercury-exposed humans against the adverse health effects of the metal,” the researchers wrote.
What makes this benefit particularly crucial is that the prevention of DNA damage is involved in preventing cancer via dietary compounds. An aqueous horseradish extract and its main flavonoids kaempferol and quercetin, for instance, demonstrated potential for DNA damage protection likely by acting as antimutagens.
Chemopreventive Properties
Epidemiological studies vouch for the protective effects of phytochemicals against cancer risk. As a ubiquitous flavonoid, quercetin is an ideal candidate to fight cancer due to its antioxidant and antiproliferative actions.
It’s known to modulate a plethora of molecules for multitargeted cancer prevention and therapy. Here are examples of quercetin’s chemopreventive abilities:
Prevention and Treatment of Various Infections
Quercetin may protect against the antibiotic-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae infection mainly through inhibiting pneumolysin, a pore-forming protein toxin and a major determinant of virulence. Separate findings previously highlighted quercetin’s therapeutic potential in treating sepsis as well.
The flavonoid derivative quercetin-3beta-O-D-glucoside (Q3G) also showed promising antiviral activity against two distinct species of Ebola, outbreaks of which occur frequently in African countries.
Hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, curcumin, and quercetin taken together were also effective in preventing recurrent urinary tract infections in postmenopausal women, found a 2016 controlled clinical trial.
Read more about scientific proof of the therapeutic value and significance of quercetin across numerous health issues and conditions in the nearly 600 abstracts with quercetin research found on the GreenMedInfo.com database.
The GMI Research Group is dedicated to investigating the most important health and environmental issues of the day. Special emphasis will be placed on environmental health. Our focused and deep research will explore the many ways in which the present condition of the human body directly reflects the true state of the ambient environment. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of GreenMedInfo LLC. Sign up for the newsletter at GreenmedInfo.health"There is no time like the present for making preparations regardless of age or health status," says Dr. Pamela Prince Pyle. (Max play/Shutterstock)
On Living and Dying: Advice From a Doctor Who Deals With Terminally Ill Patients
Learning to live with the inevitable in a post-COVID world
The COVID-19 pandemic may finally be slowing, but it has shone a stark light on one human problem that we’ll never escape. One day, books analyzing the pandemic will fill whole rows in libraries, but no analysis can dim the glaring human condition that we must face—the fact that we’re all going to die.
A patient dying from ALS said it best, “No one makes it out alive.”
Many of us have thought more about death this past year than ever before. Psychologist Ronnie Janoff-Bulman says, “Once you know that catastrophe dwells next door and can strike anyone at any time, you interpret reality differently.” As we reinterpret the reality of today in light of our future death, let us take a hard look at just exactly how we’re going to let loose of this earth.
As a doctor who deals with terminally ill patients, I know four things are true:
1. Most of us assume we are going to live to a ripe old age.
However, no one is guaranteed tomorrow. There is no time like the present for making preparations, regardless of age or health status. It can provide a surprising comfort to think through and write out your final wishes. Many online resources are available to guide you through the process. We plan for many life events with intensity, such as births, marriages, anniversaries, and birthdays. It’s valuable to plan for our final crucial time of life—and it is still life. In truth, I have seen so many living their best life once given a terminal diagnosis.
2. Those who wait until they get a grim prognosis to start pondering these matters often find the process more difficult.
It is challenging to have end-of-life discussions in times of crisis when everyone’s emotions are more volatile. I’ve been witness to so many families under stress becoming divided when opinions differ on what should be done as decision trees are presented by the medical team. In critical situations, if preparations have been done, families can focus more fully on the care and love of the patient rather than wondering what the patient would want.
3. Conversations about death and dying make most people uncomfortable. Even though the conversation itself doesn’t increase our chances of dying, just having it can make us fearful or sad. But contemplating end-of-life issues within our control is not morbid—it’s wise. Take two real-life examples.
The first was my friend Lani. When she learned that she had less than two years to live, she fought hard, mostly for her family. I was amazed to learn that two years earlier, she had cleaned out her closets and attic. “Get rid of that stuff,” she told me personally. “Your kids won’t want it.” She had prepared, so she was able to spend her last months enjoying life and enjoying her family. I remember her bedroom in her home as being a beautiful place of quiet and peace. That’s where she passed away, surrounded by her big family.
The other example is a man named Ralph. He was far from an ideal father or husband. A robust man, he didn’t seem anywhere near death, but a massive stroke brought him to the brink. Ironically, this father who had never done much for his family had prepared for his death by completing an online $5 directive known as “Five Wishes.” In his final months, as his children ministered to his needs according to his written directives, they got to know a dad who was vulnerable, and in his vulnerability, he became lovable. The last gift he gave his children—his planning—was the best gift he ever gave his children. And the last months of his life were the best months of his life.
People ask me how to talk about death with younger children. A recent article in Parents Magazine emphasized the importance of talking with our children about death, even when they’re young, to avoid confusing and often terrifying feelings. I still remember how terrified I was as a child when I watched the animated film “Bambi” and—spoiler alert—the death of Bambi’s mother. My grandson was terrified in “The Lion King” when—spoiler alert—death claimed Mufasa.
The reality is that most kids’ movies feature dying or death as a prominent theme. We need to talk openly with our children about those sad and scary scenes, listening more than we talk.
4. Most faith traditions offer spiritual (and even non-spiritual) guidance to their adherents who are dying and to those who love them.
The Jewish faith, for example, has rituals that take into account the theological, practical, and emotional needs of the terminal patient. The rightness or wrongness of our beliefs will become evident after death, but the preparation that precedes that last breath is valuable and integral to the dying process. Those who do not prepare seem to suffer more. Families that are left to deal with an unexpected, sudden death seem to suffer the most.
Once we’re comfortable with the concept of our own death and make a plan for how we’re going to die, we can join with those who make light of this inescapable human condition. We can laugh with Jerry Seinfeld who says, “Make no mistake about why these babies are here—they are here to replace us.” And we will leave earth with the confidence that we’re not burdening those babies, but actually blessing our families.
Dr. Pamela Prince Pyle has practiced hospital-based medicine in the U.S. since 1992 and on mission since 2009 with Africa New Life Ministries in Rwanda. She is the author of “A Good Death: Learning to Live Like You Were Dying.”Simply holding your phone farther from your face and using the speak- erphone function can significantly lower your exposure.(Andrea Piacquadio/Pexels)
iPhone Radiation: Easiest Ways to Protect Yourself & Reduce Exposure
Beloved by many but iPhones top the charts when it comes to radiation levels
Given the iconic status and popularity of Apple’s iPhones, there’s something of which all consumers should be aware. iPhone radiation, especially in newer models, is the highest among all smartphones—just barely under the legal limit.
All mobile electronic devices, including cell phones, emit a form of energy called Electromagnetic Field (EMF) radiation. Exposure to EMF radiation can become harmful when we constantly use our mobile devices close to our bodies over long periods of time.
Cell phones emit radio frequency (RF) radiation from wireless Internet and cellular connections, while their batteries emit extremely low frequency (ELF) radiation.
Certain parts of the body, such as the head and torso—including the breasts and reproductive area—are much more vulnerable to EMF emissions than the arms and legs.
Studies have found links between EMF exposure to everything from minor health concerns such as headaches and skin rashes, to very serious concerns, such as fertility problems, DNA fragmentation, cell damage, and cancerous tumors.
Before any cell phone can be legally sold in the U.S., it’s required to undergo testing that determines its SAR rating—which is a measure of the amount of wireless RF radiation that is absorbed by a person’s body as they use the device—by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). RF is on the higher end of the non-ionizing Electromagnetic Spectrum frequencies and is a component of EMF radiation.
This benchmark is an inaccurate measure of how much RF radiation is truly absorbed by consumers, as it fails to account for several variables.
For example, when the SAR rating was established in 1996, it was never imagined that most people would allow their phones to live in their pockets or so close to their bodies. In addition, children are more vulnerable to EMF than adults, and the SAR rating doesn’t take age into account. Nevertheless, a phone’s SAR rating can still help us get a feel for how much RF radiation it emits compared to similar devices.
The SAR rating for phones in the United States typically range from 0.2 at the lowest (thus safest) end of the spectrum, all the way up to 1.60, the legal limit before the phone is considered unsafe for human use.
When all transmitters on the iPhone 6 are on (cellular, WiFi, and Bluetooth), its SAR value is 1.58, and the iPhone 6 Plus reaches 1.59! This is dangerously high, and yet most people aren’t aware of the risk that iPhone radiation poses to their health.
If you own an iPhone, we’re not saying you should toss it and subject yourself to life with a WiFi-devoid, T9-style clunker phone. However, it’s very important to be aware of the amount of iPhone radiation emitted, and to take measures to protect yourself from the damage that EMFs can cause in both the short-term and long-term cumulative use.
Thankfully, there are several easy things you can do to reduce your exposure to iPhone radiation.
Tips for Reducing iPhone Radiation
Distance is one of the greatest forms of protection.
According to basic principles of physics, as distance from a source of EMF radiation increases, intensity of exposure decreases dramatically; in other words, simply putting a few inches between you and your device will considerably reduce the amount of iPhone radiation absorbed by your body. Here are a few ways you can follow this principle:
Use the speakerphone function on your iPhone whenever possible. Keep your iPhone in the standard talk mode, but turn the volume up to the highest setting and hold the phone 2–4 inches away from your head. If you’re not in a noisy space, you should still be able to hear and be heard normally. Opt for wired headphones or, better yet, radiation-free air tube headphones, especially if the call will be long. When you sleep, keep your iPhone at least four feet away from your bed. If you must be on a call while driving, use Apple CarPlay or an auxiliary cord to direct it through the car’s speakers. This has the added upside of promoting safer driving as well as reducing your EMF exposure. Keep your iPhone in a belt holster or in a bag. Better yet, don’t keep your phone on you at all if you won’t need it. Remember, any extra distance helps.
Airplane mode isn’t just for flying.
This feature is a simple way to immediately disable all wireless transmissions, thus reducing iPhone radiation. When airplane mode is enabled, your iPhone is no longer connected to WiFi, Bluetooth, or cellular data, meaning it is no longer constantly sending out RF signals to remain connected.
If you frequently carry your iPhone with you, try to primarily keep the phone in airplane mode, and periodically disable it to check for incoming texts or voicemails—or to make a call/send a text. Switch back to airplane mode as soon as you’re finished using your iPhone. Airplane mode is also useful for preserving your iPhone’s battery life and helping it recharge faster.
To quickly enable airplane mode on older models of iPhones, place your finger on the bottom edge of the screen, swipe upwards, and tap the airplane icon. If you have an iPhone X or later, swipe down from the upper-right corner to access the Control Center. When airplane mode is on, the airplane icon will be orange.
Cut back on unnecessary transmissions.
When your iPhone is attempting to maintain connections to multiple data sources—for example, having WiFi, Bluetooth, cellular data, GPS, and social media apps simultaneously running, a common state for many iPhone users—iPhone radiation is increased as compared to having just one or two essential functions enabled.
One way to reduce transmissions is to make sure your iPhone isn’t constantly running apps like Instagram or location services in the background. Many apps ask for permission to remain constantly synced to cellular data so that we can receive notifications instantly. But how necessary is this? Instead, check your apps manually to see if you have any updates, making sure your iPhone isn’t set to automatically connect to WiFi or cellular data.
And as a bonus, checking apps on your own terms also minimizes the constant distraction your phone can sometimes provide. This way, you have knowledge of, and thus control over, when your iPhone is transmitting to and from these sources.
Know when iPhone radiation is at its worst.
There are conditions in which your iPhone must work harder to maintain a good connection to a source. Consequently, it emits more EMF radiation and poses a greater health risk. This is a common occurrence when you’re in an area or building with poor reception.
If your iPhone has two bars or less, it’s best to avoid making calls until you’re in a location where your phone doesn’t need to compensate for a weak connection. iPhone radiation is also increased while driving. When you’re cruising down the highway at 70 mph, your distance from cell towers is constantly changing, which causes your iPhone to frequently ping as it searches for the most ideal tower or satellite to preserve a strong connection.
Maintaining a connection to a stable data source requires far less energy than repeatedly establishing new connections to constantly fluctuating sources, so it’s best to avoid talking on the phone while driving. If you do need to make a call, keep in mind that iPhone radiation is highest when first making a connection, so avoid putting the phone to your ear until the call is connected. The call timer will begin counting once the connection has been established.
Minimize use.
This tip is very simple to follow: Whenever possible, limit your use of your iPhone, especially when it’s near your body. Choose texting over calling whenever you can. If you must make a call, keep the conversation brief. Catch up with friends in person instead of over the phone. If you habitually make long calls, consider getting a corded landline phone—yes, they still exist!
Don’t keep your iPhone in your bedroom.
If you don’t need your iPhone at night, there’s no need for it to be in your sleeping space. It may be common practice to keep your iPhone on your bedside table as your morning alarm, but digital alarm clocks are very affordable and don’t emit harmful wireless radiation.
Charge your iPhone in a different room if possible. But if you must have it in your bedroom at night, place it as far from your bed as possible and enable airplane mode before your head hits the pillow.
Invest in EMF protection gear.
For various reasons, some of us can’t avoid using our iPhones frequently. For example, you may have a job that always requires you to be reachable by phone. Whether you use your iPhone a lot or a little, it may be wise to use an iPhone radiation case that puts an EMF shielding barrier between your phone and your ear or other parts of the body. This will reduce your direct skin contact with RF and ELF radiation emissions.
If you use headphones frequently while making calls, or just listening to audio, consider using radiation-free air tube headphones, that transmit sound through hollow air tubes instead of traditional wires, as the latter still allows some EMF to reach your head.
If you’re a proud iPhone owner, we hope that you adopt these practices to reduce iPhone radiation, but any smartphone user will benefit from these tips.
If you want to live a long, healthy life enjoying the newest developments in communication technology, you must take proactive steps to protect yourself and loved ones from potentially harmful EMF radiation.
Daniel DeBaun is an internationally recognized expert in EMF radiation, EMF shielding, and EMF-related health issues with special focus on the effect of exposure from mobile devices. Daniel’s concern regarding the health impact of EMF emissions grew from 30 years of engineering experience in the telecommunications industry, where he held a variety of executive positions at SAIC, Telcordia, AT&T, and Bell Labs. He is the co-author of “Radiation Nation: The Fallout of Modern Technology” and the CEO of DefenderShield.Having friends and mentors who really understand you can give you support and an antidote to the stress of life. (Elly Fairytale/Pexels)
The Brilliant Tribe
How to avoid burnout by building a tribe
The human body’s sophisticated response to stress is nothing short of a miracle. But the reality is that we overachiever stress junkies spend quite a bit of time being “plugged in” and in fight-or-flight mode, maneuvering strategically between one highly pressurized situation to the next. It’s like a time bomb.
Most people have heard of the fight-or-flight response. To put it clinically, fight-or-flight is the way your brain perceives, your nervous system activates, and your adrenal stress system prepares your body to react to incoming danger or threats. However, this multi-system response to grave danger is also the same group of reactions that manage your day-to-day encounters with high stress.
While our bodies are meant to react to perceived stress on occasion, they’re clearly not capable of withstanding longer periods of fight-or-flight without going through some sort of breakdown.
This elaborate “stress response”—with multiple internal alarms going off—typically occurs on a regular basis throughout the day for most women. This constant state of activation and overstimulation requires continuous effort in order to preserve and restore your adrenal glands. This is incredibly taxing on them, causing their entire system to become sluggish.
So here is where the TRIBE comes in to save the day!
Do you have people close to you in your life who “see you?” Do you have a few people who will call you out and set you straight, love you no matter what, and be there for you when you can’t go one more step?
Do you have friends who have your back when you can’t pull your load, will provide for you when you can’t do so for yourself, will prop you up, will defend you, go to bat for you, or cry with you whenever you need it? Do you have someone you can call at the last moment to go out and just laugh with them? You should. You need a tribe that “sees you” exactly as you are, so that when you can’t see yourself, they can help you find your way.
Tribes are essential for success and personal sanity when you’re busy changing the world. But this support system doesn’t just magically appear and can take quite a while to construct. To be clear, your tribe isn’t just helping you get work done—their role is much deeper than that. The fact that your tribe “sees you” is, in my opinion, the reason why you need them in your life.
So how do you build your tribe?
Start with a clear intention and desire to have the group you want.
Consider listening to women or men talk, and see how you feel in their presence. For example, do you feel “up,” supported, enlightened, or engaged when talking with them? Can you see this person standing strong for you?
Start small and stay focused.
Pace yourself, and don’t feel obligated to bring a member into your tribe if you know they will be more work than you the have time or energy for. Think of the qualities you want your tribe to have. For instance, start with things like: doesn’t judge, has a sense of humor, is an artist, lives with wide-open passion, and is loyal.
Take an inventory of your current friends, family, etc.
This will help you determine if there is already the start of a tribe right in front of you. Stay true to what you want in your inner circle.
Listen to your inner voice and instincts.
Listen to that “gut” feeling about a person. Your body will tell you. Do you feel drawn to them right away—like you’ve known them for years—or do they make you put up your guard?
Pay attention to their social media posts.
This is a great way to root out the crazies.
Consider doing something you are passionate about, besides working.
Go to a class, join a club, or learn something new that you’ve always wanted to learn. Doing this might enable you to meet other people with similar interests.
Begin spending time with these people and make it a priority to do so.
Find a common interest between your potential tribe members and you, and invite them over. Keep it purposeful.
If you take these steps, you may reap some fantastic rewards:
Support when you feel like giving up.
More energy and strength than you could ever generate alone.
Enrichment through many life-long relationships.
An encouraging community that allows you to make your passion your livelihood.
Feeling like the luckiest person in the world to be surrounded by those who care about you and have your back.
And perhaps the greatest—and most unexpected—gift is that leading a community will serve as a catalyst for you to become a better human being.
Best of luck to you on your tribal journey!
Nisha Jackson is a nationally recognized hormone and functional medicine expert, renowned lecturer, motivational speaker, radio host, columnist, author of best-seller “Brilliant Burnout,” and founder of OnePeak Medical Clinics in Oregon. For 30 years, her approach to medicine has successfully reversed chronic problems such as fatigue, brain fog, depression, insomnia, and lack of stamina.Changing Our Thinking About Thoughts
An excerpt from the new book 'Can't Stop Thinking: How to Let Go of Anxiety and Free Yourself from Obsessive Rumination'
Awareness
Tara came to see me when she was in her mid-30s. By her own account, she had devoted the previous 10 years of her life to conquering and eliminating her obsessive and, as she called it, unstoppable thinking.
She had been devoted to self-help for a decade and tried anything and everything to convince her mind to “stop talking” and specifically, to stop telling her she was worthless. Mostly she had used positive thinking methods, which included affirmations and gratitude practices.
She had worked as hard to change the thoughts she heard in her head.
She was a self-help pickle by now—no longer a cucumber and no going back. But here she was in my office, still struggling and stymied by her unceasing inner chatter, feeling hopeless and beaten, powerless over her thoughts and powerless over what they were doing to her.
I’ve met hundreds of Taras—people who have been disappointed by self-help and psychological fix-it strategies. My practice is filled with folks who were unable to find lasting relief from their excessive thinking through the self-help techniques that forever beckon and promise us a new life. If you also have tried everything on the shelf, don’t despair. It’s not your fault that you haven’t found what you need.
Controlling the content of our thoughts is a temporary fix, a shiny hat over dirty hair. It works to some degree when things are running smoothly and we like what’s happening in our life. But when the going gets tough and life rolls out the hard stuff—which it always does at some point—the positive thoughts don’t stick. The fix-it strategies fail, and we revert back to our old belief systems and historical thinking patterns.
Positive thinking can be helpful, and it feels good, but it doesn’t get at the real problem; it’s not strong enough to create real change in the beliefs that underlie our negative thoughts. Ultimately, it’s just a Band-Aid on a far deeper and more powerful condition.
What makes positive thinking an inadequate solution isn’t just its unreliability. The real reason it falls short is that it’s addressing the wrong problem. When the strategy is to replace negative or unwanted thoughts with positive ones, we’re relying on misguided beliefs, assuming the following: We can and should be able to control our thoughts, what our thoughts are saying is important, our thoughts have the power to control us, and finally, we have to get our thoughts under control before we can be okay. All of which are false.
Positive thinking maintains (incorrectly) that our well-being depends upon what our thoughts are saying at any moment, and thus, our successful management and control of the thoughts are the keys to our happiness. In this system, we are still at the mercy of the contents of our thoughts, still dependent on what is not ours to control. Positive thinking claims to empower us but, at the root, it disempowers us.
Self-help sells a kind of cognitive ammunition, an arsenal for winning the war against our unwanted thoughts. But if what you want is to not feel controlled by your thoughts, then the answer is to stop trying to control your thoughts—stop trying to defeat them. What frees us from negative thinking is not winning the war against our thoughts (over and over again, minute by minute, day by day, for years on end), but rather, removing ourselves from the war altogether.
Stepping Out for Peace of Mind
So then, how do we step out of the battle? What is the strategy for surrendering the fight? The process I’m suggesting begins with a radical shift in perspective. The positive thinking system says that in order for us to be okay, our thoughts have to be okay—to our liking. This suggests that we are reliant upon our thoughts. Essentially, it says we are our thoughts.
But what if this is not true? Stepping out of the battle with your thinking starts by considering that your well-being doesn’t depend on correcting thoughts at all, and furthermore, doesn’t depend on your liking or even agreeing with your thoughts.
Have you ever noticed, when thoughts are not here, even if it’s just for a moment, that you are still here, still awake, still conscious? We remain, with or without thought, which strongly suggests that we aren’t made of our thoughts. How can we still be here if what we are is not here?
As you’ll experience repeatedly through the exercises in this book, sometimes we can see our thoughts happening, see them actually arising and even passing. The fact that we can see our thoughts and hear what they’re saying also tells us that we cannot be our thoughts. We can’t be what we can see happening in front of us. It turns out that well-being depends upon our realizing that we are not our thoughts and our thoughts are not us.
Ask yourself: What if I am not my thoughts? What if I am what hears and sees the thoughts, the awareness within which thoughts are appearing?
Let this possibility germinate in you; walk with it, sit with it, shower with it, eat with it. … notice what happens.
Thoughts appear and disappear within our field of awareness, that much is true. We, however, are not responsible for their content. Thoughts can say what they want and will, and we can still be okay. Our thoughts stop controlling us when we cultivate a separate place inside ourselves from which to observe thoughts and when we stop seeing it as our job to correct and conquer them.
Freedom dawns through awareness, specifically, the awareness to see what’s happening inside your own mind, as an observer. And it begins by surrendering the responsibility for controlling what you see.
“Can’t Stop Thinking: How to Let Go of Anxiety and Free Yourself from Obsessive Rumination” was released in May and is available from Amazon and other book retailers.
Nancy Colier is a psychotherapist, interfaith minister, public speaker, and author of “Can’t Stop Thinking” (2021) “The Power of Off: The Mindful Way to Stay Sane in a Virtual World.” and “Inviting a Monkey to Tea.” For more information, visit NancyColier.comStudy Links Eating a Diet Rich in Fruit and Vegetables With Less Stress
In today’s world, stress is prevalent. Researchers are currently looking for ways to reduce stress through lifestyle interventions. A new study from Edith Cowan University (ECU) has found that eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is associated with less stress.
The Australian Diabetes and Lifestyle (AusDiab) Study aimed to find a link between fruit and vegetable intake and stress levels. To achieve this, they examined 8,600 Australian participants between the ages of 25 and 91.
The study concluded that people who ate at least 470 grams of fruit and vegetables daily had 10 percent lower stress levels compared to those who consumed less than 230 grams of produce. This amount is slightly more than the recommended consumption from the World Health Organization (WHO), which recommends consuming at least 400 grams per day.
Mental well-being is a subject that’s quickly becoming a topic of conversation around the world. It has been found that approximately 1 in 10 people globally live with a mental disorder. With lockdowns and pandemic worries taking effect worldwide over the past year, this number is expected to increase.
While some stress in life is normal, long-term exposure can significantly impact mental health. It can lead to a range of health problems, including heart disease, diabetes, depression, and anxiety. Researchers hope that by finding new links between foods and stress, they can possibly prevent or reduce mental health problems.
The benefits of a healthy diet have been well documented, but very few American’s consume the recommended daily fruit and vegetable intake. This study helps to show the importance of consuming the right foods to keep the body and mind healthy.
Previous studies have shown the link between fruit and vegetables and stress in younger adults. However, this is the first study to find a similar relationship across all ages of adulthood.
How Food Influences Stress
The mechanisms of how fruits and vegetables influence stress remain unclear, so future studies are needed. That said, some mechanisms seem readily apparent, notes the lead researcher of the study.
“Vegetables and fruits contain important nutrients such as vitamins, minerals, flavonoids, and carotenoids that can reduce inflammation and oxidative stress, and therefore improve mental well-being,” said lead researcher Simone Radavelli-Bagatini. “Inflammation and oxidative stress in the body are recognized factors that can lead to increased stress, anxiety and lower mood.”
Researchers can now confirm that eating more fruits and vegetables appears linked to mental well-being. In times such as these, with added stress, it’s more important than ever to eat right and get plenty of exercise. Lifestyle choices can go a long way to living a healthy, happy life.
Sarah Cownley earned a diploma in nutritional therapy from Health Sciences Academy in London, and she enjoys helping others by teaching healthy lifestyle changes through her personal consultations and with her regular contributions to the Doctors Health Press. This article was originally published on Bel Marra Health.U.S. Marines moving positions during battle in Garapan, during the Pacific Campaign of World War II, on Saipan, circa 1943–1945. (U.S. Marine Corps/Getty Images)
A Soldier Fights so That Others Might Live
Commentary
The Medal of Honor citation says it all: “As the perimeter began to be overrun, it became increasingly difficult for Captain Salomon to work on the wounded. He then saw a Japanese soldier bayoneting one of the wounded soldiers lying near the tent. Firing from a squatting position, Captain Salomon quickly killed the enemy soldier. Then, as he turned his attention back to the wounded, two more Japanese soldiers appeared in the front entrance of the tent.
“As these enemy soldiers were killed, four more crawled under the tent walls. Rushing them, Captain Salomon kicked the knife out of the hand of one, shot another, and bayoneted a third. Captain Salomon butted the fourth enemy soldier in the stomach and a wounded comrade then shot and killed the enemy soldier. Realizing the gravity of the situation, Captain Salomon ordered the wounded to make their way as best they could back to the regimental aid station, while he attempted to hold off the enemy until they were clear.
“Captain Salomon then grabbed a rifle from one of the wounded and rushed out of the tent. After four men were killed while manning a machine gun, Captain Salomon took control of it. When his body was later found, 98 dead enemy soldiers were piled in front of his position.”
So who was Benjamin L. Salomon, the man who practically single-handedly took on the entire Imperial Japanese Army on Saipan on July 7, 1944, and fought to his last breath so that others might live?
The first and last answer is, he was an American, doing what Americans have always done best—fighting for the country he loved. Born in Milwaukee in 1914, Salomon studied at Marquette University and the University of Southern California, where he attended dental college and went into private practice. Drafted in the fall of 1940, shortly after FDR instituted the first peacetime draft in U.S. history, Salomon was inducted as a private into the U.S. Army.
The young dentist quickly proved adept at marksmanship with both rifle and pistol, and was quickly promoted to sergeant and given command of a machine-gun unit. With America’s entry into the war after Pearl Harbor, Salomon was promoted to first lieutenant and—despite his talent for war and against his wishes—transferred to the Dental Corps.
Now, a member of the 105th Infantry Regiment and promoted to captain, Salomon hit the beach on the island of Saipan in the Marianas Islands. Under heavy, desperate Japanese resistance, there wasn’t much work for a dentist, so Salomon volunteered to replace his battalion’s surgeon, who had been wounded.
Saipan was critical to the Japanese defense of their home islands, and they were prepared to make the Americans pay dearly for every inch of it. The Japanese commander, Yoshitsugu Saito, had ordered his troops to fight to the last man, and each to kill at least 10 Americans before falling.
“Whether we attack or whether we stay where we are, there is only death. However, in death there is life. I will advance with you to deliver another blow to the American devils and leave my bones on Saipan as a fortress of the Pacific,” he said.
The Medal of Honor citation puts the dire situation into context.
“The Regiment’s 1st and 2nd Battalions were attacked by an overwhelming force estimated between 3,000 and 5,000 Japanese soldiers. It was one of the largest attacks attempted in the Pacific Theater during World War II. Although both units fought furiously, the enemy soon penetrated the Battalions’ combined perimeter and inflicted overwhelming casualties. In the first minutes of the attack, approximately 30 wounded soldiers walked, crawled, or were carried into Captain Salomon’s aid station, and the small tent soon filled with wounded men.”
This was war at its most elemental. The Japanese, with no hope of help and nowhere to run, hid in caves by day and attacked by night. The Army and Marines fought the most brutal war imaginable, with flamethrowers and bayonets and bare hands, in addition to rifles, sidearms, and machine guns. The Japanese would attack in waves, kamikazes of the infantry, attempting to overrun the American positions as the GIs pressed forward.
Salomon’s mobile hospital was set up near the front lines in the early dawn of July 7, just meters between the forward foxholes and the sea. The Japanese burst out of their concealed positions and sent the Americans reeling back. The hospital was soon filled with the wounded as the fighting raged all around it.
Salomon realized his position was untenable and ordered the wounded evacuated while he stayed behind to cover them. It was at this point that his ability with guns and weaponry came into play.
“Everybody’s dead out there,” he was reported to have said. “I can do these guys more good out there than I can in here. I’ll hold them off until you get them to safety. See you later.”
When they found his body, it was riddled with bullet and bayonet wounds, many of them apparently inflicted after death by the enraged enemy. Where Saito had demanded that each of his men kill 10 Americans, one dauntless American had killed more than 100 Japanese.
Salomon’s Medal of Honor was delayed by bureaucratic misinterpretation of the Geneva convention, which outlaws identified medical personnel from taking up arms; Salomon was wearing a Red Cross armband when he died. But in fact, doctors are allowed to fight in defense of their wounded and so, on May 1, 2002—nearly 58 years after his heroic actions—President George W. Bush officially awarded the medal posthumously to Captain Benjamin Lewis Salomon.
The citation concludes: “Captain Salomon’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States Army.” And, it must be added, upon all Americans who put their country before themselves.
Do we still have such men today?
Michael Walsh is the editor of The-Pipeline.org and the author of “The Devil’s Pleasure Palace” and “The Fiery Angel,” both published by Encounter Books. His latest book, “Last Stands,” a cultural study of military history from the Greeks to the Korean War, was recently published.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Sanction Hong Kong Officials for Torturing Britons
4 to 16 cases of Britons tortured in Hong Kong since 2019, city is no longer safe
Commentary
According to the British government, between four and sixteen allegations of ”mistreatment and torture” against British nationals in Hong Kong occurred since December 2019. Before that, only a single case in 2017 had been recorded against a Briton. This alone merits an increase in Magnitsky human rights sanctions against Hong Kong officials, and their families.
However, cases of mistreatment against others in Hong Kong are a much more serious problem. Last year, a human rights group released a report of 45 testimonies of torture at the hands of Hong Kong police, including “severe assault, excessive use of force, sexual harassment, verbal humiliation, threats of violence, and delayed access to medical or legal assistance while under police control,” according to the Hong Kong Free Press.
There are similar allegations from Pakistanis, Thais, and other non-Europeans. “Detainees have complained about ill-treatment by the guards who had allegedly subjected them to verbal and psychological abuse, and had not provided them with a hygienic environment during detention,” Anna Tsui of a detainee rights group told the South China Morning Post.
Detainee abuse is so bad in Hong Kong that in 2020, inmates of the Tuen Mun center went on hunger strike. All of these cases of human rights abuse of defenseless detainees merit increased Magnitsky sanctions against the officials responsible.
Jimmy Lai, founder of Apple Daily, arrives at the Court of Final Appeal ahead a bail hearing in Hong Kong, China, on Feb. 9, 2021. (Anthony Kwan/Getty Images)
The mistreatment of Britons was reported by the city’s South China Morning Post as tension between Britain and China are on the rise, including over increasing political control imposed by Beijing against the city, which used to be a British colony. A June 2020 National Security Law (NSL) that outlawed political speech supporting Hong Kong’s independence has extraterritorial reach. That means if you vocalize your support for Hong Kong independence, anywhere on the globe, China could try and extradite you for the “offense.” Come to think of it, Hong Kong should be independent.
The exact number of tortured Britons in Hong Kong is unknown to the public as Britain only released the number as “less than five” Britons tortured in December 2019, plus another one to four cases in each of three summer months in 2020. The total cases of torture since December 2019 could therefore be anywhere between four and sixteen. Britain does not want to tell us the exact number, ostensibly in order to honor the privacy of the tortured.
The first case of mistreatment and torture of a Briton in Hong Kong occurred shortly after the anti-government protests crescendoed in December 2019. Other cases occurred in the summer of 2020, shortly after the NSL was imposed by Beijing on the formerly independent city. But according to the Post, “Sources with knowledge of the matter said the cases in the summer of 2020 ‘were not political nor protest related, and were unrelated to the national security law.’”
Thus Britons in Hong Kong could have been arrested for run-of-the-mill infractions, and tortured and mistreated in the process. Nobody is safe. For reference, other countries in which Britons were allegedly mistreated or tortured are Nigeria, Cambodia, and Iraq. Those are the friends that Hong Kong, which should now be seen as a de facto part of China, is keeping. Not a good place to find oneself on holiday.
There were two political cases in 2019 for which British authorities examined allegations of torture and mistreatment. Simon Cheng Man-kit, a British National Overseas (BNO) passport holder was arrested on the mainland-managed side of Kowloon’s high-speed rail terminus in August 2019 after a business trip. He was detained in Shenzhen for two weeks and then released to Hong Kong. Britain’s Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab protested against the alleged mistreatment with a November 2019 summons of China’s ambassador in London.
When the foreign secretary of a country summons an ambassador, the point is to protest and humiliate the ambassador by forcing him or her to come for the meeting. It isn’t a date for tea and crumpets. The ambassador is the one getting chewed out.
In mid-November 2019, the Hong Kong police besieged democracy protesters at the Polytechnic University. It was a violent affair that included plenty of bricks, and a bow and arrow wielded by protesters. A British human rights activist who was observing was detained overnight, then released without charge.
Riot police detain a man as they clear protesters taking part in a rally against a new national security law in Hong Kong on the 23rd anniversary of the city’s handover from Britain to China on July 1, 2020. (Dale de la Rey/AFP via Getty Images)
In February 2021, the British government warned Britons, including those with dual Chinese citizenship, that they could no longer expect to receive consular assistance. In April, British authorities advised British detainees in Hong Kong about the possibility of transfer of legal cases to mainland courts, and trial without jury.
Regarding the most recent revelations, a British government spokesman told the Post, “Ongoing arrests under the national security law are being used as a pretext to silence opposition and attack Hong Kong’s rights and freedoms. We continue to raise our concerns about the law directly with the Hong Kong and Chinese governments.”
Unfortunately, the Hong Kong and Chinese governments are basically one and the same now. They don’t care what Britain has to say. They care what Britain, and its big ally the United States, does. Pretty soon they won’t care much about that either, because we won’t be able to do anything of importance. So as a first step, it’s time for the United States, European Union, and Britain to impose tough Magnitsky sanctions against all Hong Kong officials, and their families, who are responsible for human rights abuse against detainees.
Anders Corr has a bachelor’s/master’s in political science from Yale University (2001) and a doctorate in government from Harvard University (2008). He is a principal at Corr Analytics Inc., publisher of the Journal of Political Risk, and has conducted extensive research in North America, Europe, and Asia. He authored “The Concentration of Power” (forthcoming in 2021) and “No Trespassing,” and edited “Great Powers, Grand Strategies.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.New York City firefighters salute in front of a memorial on the side of a firehouse adjacent to One World Trade Center and the 9/11 Memorial site during ceremonies on the 18th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York on Sept. 11, 2019. (Craig Ruttle/AP Photo)
9/11 Plus 20: Lessons Not Learned
How 19 Islamic terrorists entered the United States with 'relative ease'
Commentary
“When these attacks occur, as they likely will, we will wonder what more we could have done to stop them.”
That was National Counterterrorism Coordinator Richard Clarke, in a May 29, 2001 memo to National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice and her deputy Stephen Hadley. The statement, which warned that “hundreds” of Americans might be killed, may be found in “The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States,” published in 2004.
“It is perhaps obvious to state that terrorists cannot plan and carry out attacks in the United States if they are unable to enter the country.” That is from the introduction to “9/11 and Terrorist Travel: Staff Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.” This document was released separately from Commission report. As the staff report shows, by this time 20 years ago, the al Qaeda team “demonstrated the relative ease of obtaining a U.S. visa and gaining admission into the United States.”
The hijackers began to acquire U.S. visas in April 1999, two years and five months before the attack. Consular officers had no information about fraudulent travel stamps that are associated with al Qaeda, and were not trained in terrorist travel tactics.
Three hijackers were known as al Qaeda terrorists in early 2000, but their biographical information was not communicated to border authorities for watch listing at U.S. consulates and the border. The hijackers successfully entered the United States 33 of 34 times, with the first arriving on Jan. 15, 2000, at Los Angeles International Airport. All others entered through airports on the East Coast, including 11 entries through New York area airports and 12 through Florida airports.
The terrorists included 14 “muscle hijackers,” trained to gain entry to the cockpit and subdue passengers. Tourist visas guaranteed them six months of legal stay, more than enough for Sept. 11, 2001. The six-month tourist stays also assured the hijackers of sufficient time to obtain identification to board the planes on 9/11. Fourteen of 15 operatives, and all of the pilots, easily acquired one or multiple forms of U.S. state-issued identification.
The staff report charts terrorist operations such as the first attack on the World Trade Center in 1993. Terrorist Ramzi Yousef and Ahmad Ajaj traveled under aliases using fraudulent documents American officials failed to discover. The terrorists’ primary tool for remaining in the United States was “immigration fraud,” such as the “bogus political asylum stories” concocted by Ajaj and Yousef, mastermind of the 1993 operation. Others simply overstayed their visas.
Those visas were issued by the State Department, which in some cases speeded up the process and approved incomplete applications. The reasons for these visa policies in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Germany “have never been adequately explained” but as Terrorist Travel notes, “with its reputation as a friend of foreigners, State was an easy target.”
The Immigration and Naturalization Service had little contact with the intelligence community, so information on terrorists failed to reach the Border Patrol, which also lacked access to the terrorist watchlist. More than two years after 9/11, many immigration inspectors had never been interviewed by the FBI or DOJ and many remained unaware that they had admitted a hijacker.
Smoke pours from the twin towers of the World Trade Center after they were hit by two hijacked airliners in a terrorist attack in New York City on Sept. 11, 2001. (Robert Giroux/Getty Images)
Prior to 9/11, the Terrorist Travel report notes, “no agency of the U.S. government thought of border security as a tool in the counterterrorism arsenal.” Indeed, even after the 9/11 hijackers easily gained admission, “border security still is not considered a cornerstone of national security policy.” Commission staff believed “it must be made one,” but it wasn’t.
For years, Americans were told the nation harbored 11 million illegals, but according to scholars at Yale and MIT, the true number may exceed 22 million, more than the populations of Romania, 19,237,691; Chile, 19,116,201, and Sri Lanka, with 21,214,349 people. Those illegally present are called “undocumented.” But to remain in the United States requires the use of false documents, immigration fraud, and bogus political asylum stories—the same tactics deployed by the 9/11 terrorists.
The conventional wisdom in Washington is that the preferred destination for refugees, particularly from the Middle East, is the United States, rather than other countries in the region. Likewise, Central Americans are encouraged to come to the United States rather than Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia or even Cuba, which has a population of only 11,236,616.
Former President Donald Trump made some effort to tighten the border and deport violent criminal illegals. Those efforts are now being reversed by President Joe Biden, on record that illegals are “already Americans.” With the border and rule of law effectively canceled, the “migrants” stream in by the thousands, from countries all over the world. American officials cannot verify their true identity and have no clue of their intentions.
If legal immigrants and legitimate citizens have a problem with this policy, then it would be hard to blame them. The same goes for anyone who lost a father, mother, son, daughter or friend on Sept. 11, 2001.
Before 9/11, border security was not considered a cornerstone of national security. Nearly 20 years later it still isn’t, and the conditions that prevailed now exist on a wider scale. To paraphrase Richard Clarke, when these attacks occur, as they likely will, American officials will know why they failed to stop them.
Lloyd Billingsley is the author of “Yes I Con: United Fakes of America,” “Barack ‘em Up: A Literary Investigation,” “Hollywood Party,” and other books. His articles have appeared in many publications, including Frontpage Magazine, City Journal, The Wall Street Journal, and American Greatness. Billingsley serves as a policy fellow with the Independent Institute.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A man crosses the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) logo in the lobby of CIA Headquarters in Langley, Va., on Aug. 14, 2008. (Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty Images)
Shouldn’t America’s Spies Already Know Where COVID Came From?
Commentary
President Biden has given the U.S. intelligence community 90 days to figure out where COVID-19 came from.
Really?
American taxpayers just might wonder what they are getting for their $80 billion that funds the nation’s mammoth intelligence bureaucracy each year.
Shouldn’t the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)—the crème-de-la-crème of the intelligence community—already know about COVID?
In fact, shouldn’t they have known in late 2019 when the virus first appeared?
That is the CIA’s job after all—to know what’s going on in China and what Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist Party leadership are thinking and doing.
Hopefully, the CIA prioritizes China over, say, Slovenia.
Perhaps the CIA is just not very good at spying. And that is its principal duty: to obtain secrets by persuading foreigners to betray their countries or organizations for America’s interests.
Yes, this isn’t always easy. Nonetheless, it is what the CIA is supposed to do.
One does hear it argued—or better said, used as an excuse—that China is a “hard target.” And it is. China’s Ministry of State Security’s successes in rolling up CIA Chinese agent networks in recent times have been colossal intelligence disasters.
But being “hard” is a poor excuse. The intelligence targets most important to the United States are usually the most difficult. Imagine an airline pilot suggesting he should not be expected to land in a 30-knot crosswind because it would be hard.
Some nationalities are recruitable by the dozen in an afternoon, with a decent lunch and a little money. Russians and Islamic terrorists? Not so easy. Chinese? Not easy but not impossible.
Operating inside China is tough. But Chinese do travel overseas. And in dictatorships, like China, one’s position and even life can be precarious. Indeed, many Chinese of means and power are looking for overseas bolt-holes and places to stash their wealth and their relatives.
A person walks past the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco, Calif., on July 23, 2020. (Philip Pacheco/AFP via Getty Images)
These are cracks for CIA officers to exploit. It takes patience and effort.
But if promotion in the agency’s Directorate of Operations (which does most of the recruiting) is still based on “scalps”—regardless of whose head they come off—guess which targets get the attention? The easy ones.
And a little… ahem… deception to jump-start a career isn’t unheard of. One recipient of the agency’s top case officer award offered sage advice—with a straight face—that “You should go to an agent meeting with the intelligence already written,” and “It’s okay to write what an agent would have said.”
In other words: make it up… or in plainer English… lie.
As for fake recruitments, there probably isn’t a current or former CIA case officer alive who can’t rattle off a few examples.
Another problem with the China target (and other hard ones) is language. Learning Chinese takes time and that’s “dead time” the way promotion boards look at it. Best to head off to Africa and rack up some easy scalps.
Adding to the spying challenge, after 9/11 the CIA got into paramilitary operations big time. That’s a lot easier than pursuing and convincing “hard targets” to give you information.
Paramilitary work is also a lot of fun—like being in the military, but without most of the rules and you only do the fun stuff. No parades, no inspections, no PowerPoint torture, and no seminars on sexual harassment and “woke” re-education sessions.
Paramilitary operations have their uses, but they are not the CIA’s core purpose.
And one suspects the CIA relies excessively on “liaison services.” That’s dumbing things down. Instead of gathering intelligence on your own, you let the local intelligence services do the work for you.
It’s easier and eliminates the risk of being caught spying in another country (a risk that’s part of the intelligence game and always has been).
But you’re also a supplicant, dependent on foreign intelligence services. You’ll only know what they know—and of that, only what they tell you. And their interests are not always America’s interests.
One also marvels that nobody seems to notice or at least do much about all this.
Congress has oversight responsibility for the CIA. But as one CIA officer commented a while back, there is little to worry about from Capitol Hill: “Tell them some stories, give them a little show-and-tell, and they think they’re dealing with Mr. Bond himself.”
And it didn’t help when the then-director of national intelligence, Lieutenant General James Clapper, who became one of President Trump’s fiercest critics, in 2013 delivered what he later called a “clearly erroneous” if “least untruthful” answer to the Senate Intelligence Committee when testifying about government surveillance of U.S. citizens.
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper (L) and CIA Director John Brennan chat before testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Feb. 9, 2016. (Molly Riley/AFP/Getty Images)
This doesn’t exactly make a citizen brim with confidence in the intelligence community’s ruling class or in the U.S. Air Force’s three-star generals.
And it’s not just Clapper. Take one former CIA director and another former acting director on whose watches the CIA missed the rise of ISIS, for starters. Both were analysts—and sub-par ones at that. They were not case officers out in the field trying to recruit and obtain intelligence. Of course, there is no shortage of sub-par case officers either.
So how did they get to the top?
It’s depressing, but both were creatures of a CIA culture—most prevalent at, but not confined to, headquarters—where sycophancy, laissez-faire backstabbing, and smoke-and-mirrors achievement are better for one’s career than producing intelligence on America’s most dangerous enemies.
As for the current Director of National Intelligence—now running the whole show—she’s a former CIA employee but with a stunning lack of experience, and zero on the “operational end.”
Not surprisingly the good officers, of whom there are still some and who could get things on track, go to great lengths to avoid headquarters assignments. There’s also no possible way they would be selected to the top positions and threaten what is a juicy employment racket.
In fairness, the CIA presumably is doing some useful work collecting information “the old fashioned way.” And the agency rightly doesn’t publicize it.
But when the question of where the coronavirus came from and what the Chinese leadership knew is still a mystery to the CIA (and the rest of the intelligence community)—one marvels at such majestic incompetence.
And none of the GS-15’s, SES’s, and SIS’s running the show seem the least bit embarrassed that when their country most needed them, they failed.
One doubts U.S. intelligence can be fixed without a flamethrower.
Grant Newsham is a retired U.S. Marine officer and a former U.S. diplomat and business executive who lived and worked for many years in the Asia/Pacific region. He served as a reserve head of intelligence for Marine Forces Pacific, and was the U.S. Marine attaché, U.S. Embassy Tokyo on two occasions. He is a senior fellow with the Center for Security Policy.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.A U.S. flag with 15 stripes and 15 stars, like the one that was flown Fort McHenry during the War of 1812, frames the Battle Monument in Baltimore, Maryland, on Sept. 12, 2014. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Our Vice President Ignores Memorial Day, as Our National Identity Needs Shoring Up
Commentary
“Enjoy the long weekend.”
Thus spake Kamala Harris, vice president of the United States, on the run-up to Memorial Day 2021.
As many commentators pointed out, you wouldn’t know that she had Memorial Day in mind, because her tweet didn’t mention the name of the holiday. For her, it was just another long weekend, another opportunity for the sheep to graze unherded for an extra day while waiting to be shorn.
Doubtless, she is kicking herself, or at any rate, the aide who suggested she issue the tweet—not, of course, because of the omission but because of the minor PR blowback it occasioned.
The sheep may be docile but they are also touchy and unpredictable.
Probably no one Harris consorts with ever gives Memorial Day a second thought.
Why should they? It’s a holiday that commemorates something they despise—many things, in fact: the spirit of personal sacrifice and duty, on the one hand, and the country for which those exertions were expended, on the other.
I am confident that this slight disturbance in The Narrative will be quickly digested, papered over, and forgotten by the compliant media machine that surrounds and protects our nomenklatura.
Harris gave that project a little nudge a day or two later when, noting the unhappiness, she issued a compensatory tweet that did mention the holiday.
That snuffling noise you hear is the sound of cynics reacting to her second tweet.
In any event, the fracas did put me in mind of a family outing to Maryland over Memorial Day weekend several years ago.
Fort McHenry
Together with my wife and 5-year-old son, I stopped at Baltimore Harbor to see Fort McHenry, the site, in September 1814, of the Battle of Baltimore, a decisive episode in the War of 1812.
It was a glorious spring day: the sky was an infinite azure punctuated by a flotilla of stately white clouds.
Our first stop was a modern outbuilding adjacent to the 18th-century fort. We crowded into a small theater with about 30 fourth-graders and their teachers to watch a short film.
Among other things, we learned about the origins of the war, about how the British took and burned Washington, about how at last 1,000 U.S. troops under George Armistead at Fort McHenry successfully defended their bastion against the British naval onslaught, saving Baltimore and turning the tide of the war.
It was (as the Duke of Wellington said of Waterloo) “the nearest run thing you ever saw.”
The British ships, anchored out of range of Armistead’s cannons, pounded the fort with mortar and Congreve rocket fire over the course of 25 hours.
Sitting on a truce ship behind the British fleet was a young American lawyer and amateur poet named Francis Scott Key. He watched as the battle raged, dappling the night sky with noisy coruscations.
Sometime before sunrise, the bombardment suddenly stopped. Key was uncertain of the battle’s outcome until dawn broke and he saw the American flag fluttering boldly above Fort McHenry. (When he had taken command, Armistead asked for an extra-large flag so that “the British would have no trouble seeing it from a distance.”)
There would be no surrender.
The Brits abandoned their plans to invade Baltimore. The war would soon be over.
As soon as he caught sight of Old Glory, Key began scribbling what would become “The Star-Spangled Banner” on the back of a letter. He finished it in a hotel in Baltimore a day or two later.
The poem was an instant hit and was soon set to “The Anacreontic Song,” an 18th-century English drinking tune. It became the official national anthem in 1931.
The film ended and strains of the song began floating out from the loudspeakers—softly at first, then louder and louder. Everyone in the room scrambled to his feet.
“O say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave
O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave”
The schoolchildren stood reverently, each with his right hand over his heart. A floor-length curtain wheeled back, flooding the room with light.
There was Fort McHenry. And there, rising above it, was the American flag, waving gently in the breeze. With the possible exception of our son, who was busy attacking The Enemy with his toy F14, there wasn’t a dry eye in the house.
American Identity
Of course, that calculated piece of theater was in part an exercise in sentimentality. Is that a bad thing? Wallace Stevens may have been right that, in general, “sentimentality is a failure of feeling”—a sign of counterfeit emotion rather than the real thing.
Nevertheless, there is a place for a bit of affirmative sentimentality in the moral economy of our society.
Among other things, it provides emotional glue for our shared identity as Americans.
These days, perhaps more than ever before, that identity needs glue. As we contemplate the prospects for America and its institutions in the 21st century, it isn’t only particular cultural and social institutions that deserve scrutiny.
What we might call the institution of American identity—of who we are as a people—also requires our attention.
It’s often said that the terrorist attacks of 9/11 precipitated a new resolve throughout the nation.
There is some truth to that.
Certainly, the extraordinary bravery of the firefighters and other rescue personnel in New York and Washington provided an invigorating spectacle—as did Todd “Let’s Roll” Beamer and his fellow passengers on United Airlines Flight 93.
Having learned from their cellphones what had happened at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, they rushed and overpowered the terrorists who had hijacked their plane.
As a result, the plane crashed on a remote Pennsylvania farm instead of on Pennsylvania Avenue. Who knows how many lives their sacrifice saved?
The widespread sense of condign outrage—of horror leavened by anger and elevated by resolve—testified to a renewed sense of national purpose and identity after 9/11.
Attacked, many Americans suddenly (if temporarily) rediscovered the virtue of patriotism. At the beginning of his remarkable book “Who Are We? The Challenges to America’s National Identity,” the late Samuel Huntington tells about a certain block on Charles Street in Boston.
At one time, American flags flew in front of a U.S. post office and a liquor store.
At some point, the post office stopped displaying the flag, so on Sept. 11, 2001, the flag flew only in front of the liquor store.
Within two weeks, 17 American flags decorated that block of Charles Street, in addition to a huge flag suspended over the street close by.
“With their country under attack,” Huntington notes, “Charles Street denizens rediscovered their nation and identified themselves with it.”
Was that rediscovery anything more than a momentary passion? Huntington reports that within a few months, the flags on Charles Street began to disappear. By the time the first anniversary rolled around in September 2002, only four were left flying.
True, that is four times more than were there on Sept. 10, 2001, but it’s less than a quarter of the number that populated Charles Street at the end of September 2001.
There are similar anecdotes from around the country—an excess of flag-waving followed by a relapse into indifference.
Does it mean that the sudden upsurge of patriotism in the weeks following 9/11 was only, as it were, skin-deep?
Or perhaps it merely testifies to the fact that a sense of permanent emergency is difficult to maintain, especially in the absence of fresh attacks?
Is our sense of ourselves as Americans potent only when challenged?
“Does it,” Huntington asks, “take an Osama bin Laden … to make us realize that we are Americans? If we do not experience recurring destructive attacks, will we return to the fragmentation and eroded Americanism before September 11?”
One hopes that the answer is no.
Cultural Dissolution
I am writing on Memorial Day 2021, just a few months before the 20th anniversary of 9/11.
The behavior of those school children at Fort McHenry—behavior that was, I am happy to report, quietly encouraged by their teachers—suggests that the answer cannot simply be no.
But I fear that for every schoolchild standing at attention for the National Anthem, there is a teacher or lawyer or judge or politician, a Black Lives Matter spokesman, ACLU employee, or critical race theorist militating against the “hegemony of the dominant culture,” the insupportable intrusion of white, Christian, “Eurocentric” values into the curriculum, the school pageant, the town green, etc., etc.
The demonstration of national character and resolve following Sept. 11 was extraordinary.
It didn’t, however, purchase immunity from the virus of cultural dissolution advanced by an elite more taken with the woke imperatives of the 1619 Project—now incorporated in the curricula of some 4,500 schools—than lessons of 1776.
The sobering truth is that the display of national heroism and resolve following 9/11 has had little if any effect on the forces behind the fragmentation and “eroded Americanism” to which Huntington refers.
Those forces aren’t isolated phenomena; they aren’t even confined to America.
On the contrary, they are part of a global crisis in national identity, coefficients of the sudden collapse of self-confidence in the West—a collapse that shows itself in everything from swiftly falling birthrates to the attack on the whole idea of the sovereign nation-state.
It’s hard to avoid thinking that a people that has lost the will to reproduce or govern itself is a people on the road to destruction.
Which is one of many reasons we should look askance at the vice president of the United States telling us to “enjoy the long weekend” when she should have paid some homage to the men and women whose sacrifice made her little bubble of affluent privilege possible.
Roger Kimball is the editor and publisher of The New Criterion and publisher of Encounter Books. His most recent book is “Who Rules? Sovereignty, Nationalism, and the Fate of Freedom in the 21st Century.”
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.Government Must Release All Records of Pandemic Response Spending
Pork barrel spending in pandemic response means more oversight should have been built into Bill C-13
Commentary
The COVID-19 Emergency Response Act was created in order for the government to be able to move quickly in response to the unfolding crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bill C-13 was introduced in Parliament on March 24, 2020, and received royal assent the very next day. Opposition and government members worked together in a rare display of unity to bring the bill into force. A process that usually takes months was done in a few days.
But with documents now coming to light that demonstrate some very questionable government expenditures under the guise of pandemic response, it appears that the opposition parties should have pressured for more oversight measures within the bill before giving it such quick approval.
It is understandable why the Liberal government sought the authority and ability to move quickly with spending measures in response to the pandemic. We were in the early stages of an unfolding and unprecedented emergency. There simply wasn’t time for extended parliamentary debates on every government action that may be required as issues developed. We didn’t know how long outbreaks would last, how seriously they would impact business and health care facilities, or how much government response would be required in order to address situations.
It is easy to see why the opposition parties did not want to appear as if they were hindering government efforts to provide pandemic relief. The nation was gripped with fear as a pandemic swept the world in a way unseen in generations. Citizens would not have responded favourably if it appeared that opposition parties were playing political games and obstructing any measures that would aid people and businesses during this crisis. Opposition party leaders were in a tough position, and they chose to pass Bill C-13 with virtually no scrutiny. In hindsight, this may have been a poor choice on their part.
Whenever there is a crisis, opportunists spring out of the woodwork in hopes of taking advantage of it. The COVID-19 pandemic is proving to be no exception to this rule. Members of Parliament issued a House order last October demanding the release of over a million records related to pandemic spending. To date, only less than 1 percent—8,000—of these records have been disclosed, and within them there is evidence of rampant mismanagement and questionable lobbying efforts. Just imagine what is hiding within the 992,000 or so remaining documents.
There was an utter feeding frenzy of lobbying for government contracts as over $600 billion was borrowed and disbursed by the government with little to no oversight thanks to the emergency powers that had been granted.
According to Blacklock’s Reporter, which broke the story, there were countless sole-sourced contracts with advance payments made. One former Liberal MP was part of a consortium of companies that got a $237 million contract for ventilators that were unapproved at the time and ended up each costing about $10,000 more than the original U.S. model on which they were based. A lobbyist won a $118 million contract for a client after boasting of “getting things done.” A Liberal Party-connected lobbyist contacted the cabinet seeking a contract for his son. The examples are numerous and galling.
The need for speed with the government does not have to preclude the need for oversight. Surely some of the larger contracts issued could have been subjected to some cursory examination by an all-party committee before they were issued. Opposition MPs demonstrated that they were willing and able to work co-operatively with the government in light of the emergency. They could have done so in an oversight committee just as well as they did in Parliament when they gave the government sweeping spending powers.
In a period of crisis, it is vital that a government be held more accountable in its actions, not less. Opposition parties were derelict in their role to provide constructive critique to the government, as they chose to give the government a pass on spending rather than risk losing political points with the electorate. Sometimes making the right choice is more important than making the best political choice, and that applies more than ever during an emergency.
There is no getting the toothpaste back into the tube now. All that opposition parties can do is continue to pressure the government to release its records of spending and to work on holding the government accountable after the fact. In light of what little we have seen, it is a pretty safe bet that some bombshells still await within the hundreds of thousands of records that are being withheld by the Privy Council Office.
What we can do though is to learn from this. While this pandemic appears to be winding down, we can be assured that one day, the world will face a sweeping crisis of some sort again. Not only should emergency plans be created with a swift reaction to a crisis in mind, but they should also have accountability measures built into them.
We also need to ensure that every possible dollar spent goes toward the actual crisis rather than into the pockets of unprincipled contractors and lobbyists. This is a mistake that we must never repeat.
Cory Morgan is a columnist and business owner based in Calgary.
Views expressed in this article are the opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of The Epoch Times.‘The Office’ Actor Mark York Dies at 55
By Brandon Sapienza
From New York Daily News
Mark York, who was best known for his role as Billy Merchant in seasons one and two of “The Office,” has died following an illness, according to TMZ. He was 55.
York died last week at Miami Valley Hospital in Ohio. The cause of death has not been confirmed.
The Ohio-born actor headed to California where he found himself playing small TV roles on popular shows such as “CSI: New York” and “Fighting Words.” However, his most famous work came on the hit show “The Office.”
Since 1988, Merchant has used a wheelchair as he was a paraplegic. He did not act for many years and had been working as an inventor, acquiring two patents for his inventions.
York is survived by his parents, and brother.
©2021 New York Daily News. Visit at nydailynews.com. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.‘F9’ Actor John Cena Apologizes to China in Chinese for Calling Taiwan a Country
John Cena, a star in the newest “Fast & Furious” movie, published a video apologizing in Chinese, hours after Chinese state-run media criticized him for calling Taiwan a country.
“I’m really, really sorry! You must understand that I love and respect China and Chinese people,” Cena said in Mandarin in a video posted on Chinese social media platform Weibo on May 25.
He said after being criticized, he was asked by many people to say sorry to the Chinese people using Mandarin, because “I made a mistake in one interview.”
“Taiwan is the first country [in the world] that will screen Fast & Furious 9 (F9),” Cena said on May 8 when he was interviewed by Taiwanese TVBS.
On May 24, the Chinese state-run tabloid Global Times posted a screenshot of the interview on Weibo and asserted that self-ruled Taiwan is a province of China.
Taiwan is a de facto independent country, with its own military, democratically-elected government, and constitution. But the Chinese regime claims the island as its own and has threatened to unify it by force in recent years, also utilizing psychological warfare tactics.
“China’s threats to invade Taiwan greatly undermine security across the Indo-Pacific region,” Rep. Ken Buck (R-Colo.) told The Epoch Times in reaction to Cena’s apology. “Americans should recognize Taiwan’s autonomy instead of bowing to a country that has blatant disregard for international law and order.”
(L-R) Sung Kang, Vin Diesel, Ludacris, John Cena, and Tyrese Gibson speak onstage during Universal Pictures Presents The Road To F9 Concert and Trailer Drop in Miami on Jan. 31, 2020. (Kevin Winter/Getty Images for Universal Pictures )
Apology
Cena offered an apology on May 25, but didn’t mention Taiwan or discuss the details of his “mistake.”
“I must say now that I did a lot of interviews for F9 … I’m very, very sorry for my mistake,” Cena said. “I must say now, [it’s] very, very, very, very, very important that I love and respect China and Chinese people.”
Cena repeated the same sentence twice without mentioning Taiwan.
Cena’s apology wasn’t approved by some of his Chinese fans, who asked him to say “Taiwan is part of China,” and commented that “you have to choose only one between the Chinese market and the Taiwan provincial market,” “I don’t accept your apology.”
The latest “Fast & Furious” movie premiered in China on May 21 and earned $59.1 million on its opening day, with nearly $136 million over the weekend.
The movie was planned to release in Taiwan—where the movie’s director Justin Lin was born—on May 19, but was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Taiwanese media.
However, Vin Diesel, another F9 star actor, told another story.
Diesel told Chinese fans in English at the F9 China press conference on May 18: “Early this year, we asked our studio to do something that they have never done before. We asked the studio to open Fast & Furious 9 in China first … That is our way to say ‘Thank You, China’ for always being a part of the family.”
Vin Diesel attends the premiere of Sony Pictures’ “Bloodshot” in Los Angeles on March 10, 2020. (Jon Kopaloff/Getty Images)
Hollywood in China
China has the world’s largest movie market, but it isn’t open to all movies. Any movie that wants to be released in China must pass strict censorship rules from the communist regime.
The rules require the movie’s story, footage, music, actors, and directors not to oppose the CCP’s propaganda system.
The best picture winner of the 93rd Academy Awards, Nomadland, was censored in China because the movie’s Chinese-born director Chloé Zhao told Filmmaker magazine in 2013 that her home country was “a place where there are lies everywhere” when she was growing up.
Hollywood film producer Chris Fenton wrote in his book “Feeding the Dragon: Inside the Trillion Dollar Dilemma Facing Hollywood, the NBA, & American Business” that the end of the 2013 movie World War Z included scenes that promote communist China out of concern the movie wouldn’t pass the Chinese regime’s censorship rules.
But despite Fenton’s expectation, World War Z wasn’t allowed to be released in China even after the distributor Paramount removed all China-related clips. It may be because the original story that the movie is based on is a 2006 zombie novel where a plague from China causes a global pandemic.
Pen America published a report in August 2020 titled “Made in Hollywood, Censored in Beijing.” James Tager, the lead author, wrote: “The influence of Chinese [regime’s] censorship has seeped into the U.S. filmmaking industry, imposing a threat to the kinds of films that can be made and the stories that can be told.”
Eva Fu contributed to this report.Actor Charles Grodin attends the opening night gala world premiere of "Captain Phillips" during the 51st New York Film Festival at Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center on September 27, 2013 in New York City. (Jemal Countess/Getty Images)
Charles Grodin, ‘Midnight Run,’ ‘Heartbreak Kid,’ Star, Dies
Charles Grodin, the droll, offbeat actor and writer who scored as a caddish newlywed in “The Heartbreak Kid” and later had roles ranging from Robert De Niro’s counterpart in the comic thriller “Midnight Run” to the bedeviled father in the “Beethoven” comedies, has died. He was 86.
Grodin died Tuesday at him in Wilton, Connecticut, from bone marrow cancer, his son, Nicholas Grodin, said.
Known for his dead-pan style and everyday looks, Grodin also appeared in “Dave,” “The Woman in Red,” “Rosemary’s Baby” and “Heaven Can Wait.” On Broadway, he starred with Ellen Burstyn in the long-running 1970s comedy “Same Time, Next Year,” and he found many other outlets for his talents.
In the 1990s, he made his mark as a liberal commentator on radio and TV. He also wrote plays and television scripts, winning an Emmy for his work on a 1997 Paul Simon special, and wrote several books humorously ruminating on his ups and downs in show business.
Actors, he wrote, should “think not so much about getting ahead as becoming as good as you can be, so you’re ready when you do get an opportunity. I did that, so I didn’t suffer from the frustration of all the rejections. They just gave me more time.” He spelled out that advice in his first book, “It Would Be So Nice If You Weren’t Here,” published in 1989.
Grodin became a star in the 1970s, but might have broken through years earlier: He auditioned for the title role in Mike Nichols’s “The Graduate,” which came out in 1967. But the part for what became a classic went instead to Dustin Hoffman.
Grodin did have a small role in “Rosemary’s Baby” and was part of the large cast of Nichols’s adaptation of “Catch-22″ before he gained wide notice in the 1972 Elaine May comedy “The Heartbreak Kid.”
He starred as a Jewish newlywed who abandons his comically neurotic bride to pursue a beautiful, wealthy blonde played by Cybill Shepherd. The movie was a hit and Grodin received high praise. He commented: “After seeing the movie, a lot of people would approach me with the idea of punching me in the nose.”
In the next few years, Grodin played in a lavish 1976 film remake of “King Kong” as the greedy showman who brings the big ape to New York. (The World Trade Center replaced the Empire State Building in the climax.) He was Warren Beatty’s devious lawyer in “Heaven Can Wait,” and Gene Wilder’s friend in “The Woman in Red” (Less successfully, he appeared in May’s 1987 adventure comedy “Ishtar,” a notorious flop).
In 1988′s “Midnight Run,” Grodin was a bail-jumping accountant who took millions from a mobster and De Niro was the bounty hunter trying to bring him cross-country to Los Angeles. They’re being chased by police, another bounty hunter and the Mob, and because Grodin is afraid of flying, they are forced to go by car, bus, even boxcar.
“Beethoven” brought him success in the family-animal comedy genre in 1992. Asked why he took up such a role, he told The Associated Press he was happy to get the work.
“I’m not that much in demand,” Grodin replied. “It’s not like I have this stack of wonderful offers. I’m just delighted they wanted me.”
Amid his film gigs, Grodin became a familiar face on late-night TV, perfecting a character who would confront Johnny Carson or others with a fake aggressiveness that made audiences cringe and laugh at the same time.
“It’s all a joke,” he told The Los Angeles Times in 1995. “It’s just a thing. It was a choice to do that.”
His biggest stage success, by far, was “Same Time, Next Year,” which opened on Broadway in 1975 and ran nearly 3 1/2 years. He and Burstyn were two people who—though each happily married—meet in the same hotel once a year for an extramarital fling. Beyond the humor, the play won praise for deftly tracing the changes in their lives, and in society, from the 1950s to the ’70s. Critic Clive Barnes called Grodin’s character “a monument to male insecurity, gorgeously inept.”
After 1994’s “My Summer Story,” Grodin largely abandoned acting. From 1995 to 1998, he hosted a talk show on CNBC cable network. He moved to MSNBC and then to CBS’ “60 Minutes II.”
In his 2002 book, “I Like It Better When You’re Funny,” he said too many TV programmers’ believe that viewers are best served “if we hear only from lifelong journalists.” He argued that “people outside of Washington and in professions other than journalism” also deserved a soapbox.
He returned to the big screen in 2006 as Zach Braff’s know-it-all father-in-law in “The Ex.” More recent credits include the films “An Imperfect Murder” and “The Comedian” and the TV series “Louie.”
Grodin was born Charles Grodinsky in Pittsburgh in 1935, son of a wholesale dry goods seller who died when Charles was 18. He played basketball and later described himself as “a rough kid, always getting kicked out of class.”
He studied at the University of Miami and the Pittsburgh Playhouse, worked in summer theater and then struggled in New York, working nights as a cab driver, postal clerk and watchman while studying acting during the day.
In 1962 Grodin made his Broadway debut and received good notices in “Tchin Tchin,” a three-character play starring Anthony Quinn. He followed with “Absence of a Cello” in 1964.
He co-wrote and directed a short-lived 1966 off-Broadway show called “Hooray! It’s a Glorious Day … and all that.” That same year, he made his movie debut in a low-budget flop called “Sex and the College Girl.”
In 1969, Grodin demonstrated his early interest in politics by helping write and direct “Songs of America,” a TV special starring Simon and Garfunkel that incorporated civil rights and antiwar messages. But the original sponsor pulled out and Simon later called the little-noticed effort “a tragedy.”
Simon returned with a special in 1977 that spoofed show business and featured Grodin as the show’s bumbling producer. Grodin and his co-writers won Emmys.
Grodin and his first wife, Julia Ferguson, had a daughter, comedian Marion Grodin. The marriage ended in divorce. He and his second wife, Elissa Durwood, had a son, Nicholas.
By Jake CoyleActress Tawny Kitaen arrives at the opening night of 'Rain- A Tribute To The Beatles' at the Pantages Theatre in Hollywood, Calif., on April 12, 2011. (Angela Weiss/Getty Images for Pantages Theatre)
Tawny Kitaen, Star of ’80s Rock Music Videos, Dies at 59
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.—Tawny Kitaen, the sultry red-haired actress who appeared in rock music videos during the heyday of MTV and starred opposite Tom Hanks in the 1984 comedy “Bachelor Party,” has died. She was 59.
The Orange County coroner’s office said she died at her home in Newport Beach on Friday. The cause of death was not immediately released.
Her daughters, Wynter and Raine, confirmed their mother’s death on Kitaen’s Instagram account.
“We just want to say thank you for all of you, her fans and her friends, for always showing her such support and love. You gave her life everyday,” their statement said.
Kitaen became the rock world’s “video vixen” after appearing on the cover of two albums from the heavy metal band Ratt and starring in several music videos for Whitesnake, including the 1987 smash song “Here I Go Again.” The video, played repeatedly on the burgeoning music television network, featured Kitaen performing cartwheels on the hood of a Jaguar.
She also starred as the fiancee to Tom Hanks’ character in the comedy “Bachelor Party,” and as Jerry Seinfeld’s girlfriend in a 1991 episode of “Seinfeld.” Other TV credits included a stint as co-host of “America’s Funniest People” and on the reality shows “The Surreal Life” and “Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew,” in which she revealed her struggle with substance abuse.
Kitaen had a tumultuous personal life, which included a brief marriage to Whitesnake’s lead singer, David Coverdale, and a rocky marriage to baseball pitcher Chuck Finley, with whom she had two daughters.
“My sincere condolences to her children, her family, friends & fans,” Coverdale tweeted on Saturday.
By Daisy NguyenJosh Duggar Released as He Awaits Trial on Child Pornography
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark.—Former reality TV star Josh Duggar was released from an Arkansas jail Thursday as he awaits trial on federal charges that he possessed and downloaded child pornography.
Duggar, 33, did not speak to reporters as he walked out of the Washington County jail in Fayetteville with his attorney Thursday afternoon, a day after a federal judge granted Duggar’s release while he awaits his July 6 trial. Duggar will be confined to the home of family friends who have agreed to serve as his custodians.
Duggar was indicted last Friday after being arrested by U.S. Marshals. He has pleaded not guilty.
Duggar starred on TLC’s “19 Kids and Counting” until it was pulled from the network in 2015 following revelations that Duggar had molested four of his sisters and a babysitter. Duggar’s parents said he had confessed to the fondling and apologized.
Duggar previously apologized for a pornography addiction and cheating on his wife.
A federal agent testified Wednesday that multiple pornographic images of children, including toddlers, had been downloaded to a computer at a car dealership that Duggar owned in May 2019.
A monitoring program that sent reports to Duggar’s wife about his activity had been installed, but the images and videos were downloaded after software had been installed that allowed him to download them without being monitored, the agent said.
Under the terms of his release, Duggar can have contact with his children but only with his wife present. He cannot be around any other minors, including other relatives.Chloe Zhao, winner of the awards for best picture and director for "Nomadland," poses in the press room at the Oscars at Union Station in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 25, 2021. (Chris Pizzello/Pool/AP Photo)
China Mutes Reaction to Zhao’s Oscars as S. Korea Lauds Youn
TAIPEI, Taiwan—Chloé Zhao’s history-making Oscars sweep, winning best director and best picture, is being met with a muted response in her country of birth, and even censorship.
Zhao’s “Nomadland” is the second film directed by a woman to win a best picture Oscar. She is the first woman of color and second woman ever to win the Oscars for best director.
Yet, in China, where Zhao was born, her history-making success has not been trumpeted or celebrated. State media in China remained silent as of Monday afternoon, with no mention of her win by either CCTV and Xinhua, the two main state-run outlets.
Producers Peter Spears, from (L), Frances McDormand, Chloe Zhao, Mollye Asher and Dan Janvey, winners of the award for best picture for “Nomadland,” pose in the press room at the Oscars at Union Station in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 25, 2021. (Chris Pizzello, Pool/AP)
Instead, there was even censorship. A post announcing Zhao’s directing win by film magazine Watch Movies, which has over 14 million followers on the ubiquitous Weibo microblog, was censored a few hours after it appeared Monday morning. A hashtag called “Chloe Zhao wins Best Director” was also censored on the platform with users coming across an error message saying, “according to relevant laws and regulations and policies, the page is not found.”
Some users resorting to using “zt” to post about Zhao, using the initials of her full name in Chinese, Zhou Ting. Typing in Zhou’s name in Chinese on Weibo brought up only unrelated posts from the beginning of April. A search for “Oscars” showed only official posts from the South Korean and U.S. embassies.
A phone shows a search page from Douban for Nomadland resulting in the message “the search results could not be displayed in accordance to relevant laws and regulations.” in Beijing, China, on April 26, 2021. (Ng Han Guan/AP Photo)
Douban, an app popular with film buffs, banned searches for “Nomadland” and “Zhao Ting” saying that “the search results could not be displayed in accordance to relevant laws and regulations.” Multiple discussion threads about Zhao’s win were deleted on the app as well. A news article on WeChat, the largest messaging app in the country, was also deleted.
Still, the news of her wins spread onto the Chinese internet, with individual web users and bloggers cheering Zhao. Many took note of her acceptance speech, in which Zhao quoted a line from a poem written in the 13th century that she, like many other Chinese children, had memorized as a child, which translates as, “People are good at birth.”
In stark contrast, South Korea’s Youn Yuh-jung, who won over audiences playing the grandmother in “Minari” could still be searched on the Chinese internet. Youn nabbed best supporting actress award, becoming the first Korean performer to win an Oscar.
Yuh-jung Youn in a scene from “Minari.” (A24 via AP)
A visitor watches a TV screen showing a news program with file footage reporting South Korean actress Yuh-Jung Youn received the Oscar for best supporting actress for her performance in “Minari,” at Seoul Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea, on April 26, 2021. (Lee Jin-man/AP Photo)
And in Youn’s home of South Korea, “Actor Youn Yuh-jung” topped Twitter’s trending list while other South Korean celebrities quickly offered their congratulations. Lee Byung-hun, a South Korean actor known abroad for his role as “Storm Shadow” on the “G.I. Joe” series, posted a photo of Youn clutching an Oscar trophy. “Impossible is just an opinion,” he wrote on the post. Bae Doona from the acclaimed Netflix series “Kingdom” and a well-known South Korean actor Kim Hye-soo also congratulated Youn on their social media accounts.
Zhao faced a nationalist backlash in March when she won a Golden Globe for best director, with internet users in China questioning whether she could be called Chinese and some saying she had insulted her home country in comments on the political system. China’s press, television and social media are tightly controlled by the ruling Communist Party, either directly or through self-censorship, and online criticism can frequently result in calls for boycotts of entertainers or name brands.
Before the backlash in March, the film was slated for an April 23 release in China according to local media, but it did not open last week and there was no official word on a release. Employees at two cinemas in Beijing said they did not know of any upcoming showings of the film.
Chloe Zhao attends the drive-in premiere of “Nomadland” hosted by Fox Searchlight and the Telluride Film Festival at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif., on Sept. 11, 2020. (Amy Sussman/Getty Images)
Offline, however, some celebrated Zhao’s win and offered congratulations.
“Wow that’s incredible—winning a world’s top award as a Chinese person,” said Zhou Lu, 35, who worked at a publisher in Beijing. She said she had not heard of Zhao before, however, but would plan to watch the film.
Others pointed out that the nationalism should not have a place in the discussion about the film.
“Her win is deserved, and it has nothing to do with her country or her ethnicity,” said Victory Dong, a 19-year-old college student who uses Douban.
But Dong did not feel any particular connection with Zhao just based on her country of birth. “She is a global citizen, I am not.”
By Huizhong WuA helicopter flies a banner advertising the 2nd part of the Lord of the Rings trilogy 'Two Towers' movie in Auckland, New Zealand on Dec. 19, 2002. (Michael Bradley/Getty Images)
CCP Pulls Down Hollywood Blockbusters For Political Propaganda
Chinese theaters suddenly became empty this month after the Hollywood classic trilogy “The Lord of the Rings” was replaced with Communist Party propaganda movies.
On April 1, the first day of the change, the box office revenue for five pre-cultural revolution films, which were first released before 1965, was zero. Three others had very limited income. On the second day, ticket-selling websites removed the showtimes of the six oldest movies.
“I have waited for almost a month for the re-release of Peter Jackson’s epic,” a Chinese netizen posted on social media Weibo on April 6. “I won’t go to the cinema if there’s no ‘The Lord of the Rings,’” the netizen said. “My happy April is gone. It made me even feel that I shouldn’t go to the cinema in May,” another netizen commented on the post.
The Chinese regime ordered all theaters to release over 10 propaganda movies every month from April to December, to celebrate the party’s 100th anniversary. Each theater must show at least two propaganda movies five times per week.
It’s unclear whether the Hollywood blockbusters can be re-released in China.
A screening of “The Lord of the Rings” in Beverly Hills, Calif., on June 30, 2008. (Katy Winn/Getty Images)
The Lord of the Rings
This year is the 20th anniversary of “The Lord Of The Rings,” an adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien’s classic fantasy book series. To entertain its fans, the trilogy planned to re-release its 4K digitally restored version in China on April 9, 16, and 23.
Historically, classic movies had good box office ratings in China, although their first releases were three or four months later than in the United States. According to box office records, the trilogy grossed more than $25 million from 2002 to 2004 in China.
The trilogy’s re-release attracted Chinese fans.
A screenshot posted in March on Taopiaopiao, an online movie ticketing website, shows 120,523 people bought tickets for “The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring;” 94,153 people bought tickets for “The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers;” and 128,084 people bought tickets for “The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.”
The NAC’s “The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring in Concert” added a new dimension to the popular film that was released to great acclaim in 2001. (Courtesy of National Arts Centre)
Political Needs
In China, propaganda requests or the regime’s orders take priority over cinema profits.
The Chinese State Film Administration issued a notice on March 19 requiring all cinemas to show at least two officially designated propaganda films five times a week from April 1 to the end of December, to assist the CCP’s celebration of its 100th anniversary.
In general, the pre-Cultural Revolution propaganda films told stories about the CCP bravely seizing power and that Chinese people enjoyed working hard to support the regime. Later, propaganda movies in China highlighted the CCP’s victories in the anti-Japanese war, the Korean War (or as the CCP calls it, the war to resist U.S. aggression and aid Korea), and the civil war between the CCP and the Kuomintang from 1946 to 1949, as well as Chinese people’s love for the CCP.
The mandatory screening of 100 red films launched by the CCP’s Publicity Department “is once again promoting a hatred-based ideology that actually distorts the minds of the Chinese people, especially young people, and turns them into psychotic, persecutory paranoiacs,” said Alexander Liao, a China expert and journalist that contributes to The Epoch Times.
Chinese propaganda movies advance the CCP’s political needs, said a Chinese current affairs commentator. Therefore, Chinese theaters have to arrange the showtimes for these movies.
“China’s movie market is deformed, and no matter how much money Hollywood blockbusters can make, they still have to make way for the political needs of the CCP,” said U.S.-based current affairs commentator Li Yanming in an interview with the Chinese Epoch Times.
“Over the years, Hollywood has voluntarily modified its films to meet the requirements of the CCP for the Chinese market, but its schedule and box office is still controlled by the political needs of the CCP,” said Li. “This is also a tragedy for Hollywood.”Vice President Kamala Harris speaks at the virtual Washington Conference on the Americas in Washington, May 4, 2021. (Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)
It really requires a heart of stone not to laugh uproariously at today’s report from CNN by Priscilla Alvarez and Natasha Bertrand entitled “Vice President Harris’ team tries to distance her from fraught situation at the border”:
In the weeks since the President asked her to take charge of immigration from Central America, Vice President Kamala Harris and her staff have sought to make one thing clear: She does not manage the southern border. Two White House officials familiar with the dynamic said Harris and her aides have emphasized internally that they want to focus on conditions in Central America that push migrants to the US southern border, as President Joe Biden tasked her to do. . . . Biden announced Harris’ new assignment on March 24 . . . telling reporters that he had asked the vice president “because she’s the most qualified person to do it, to lead our efforts with Mexico and the Northern Triangle, and the countries that can help, need help in stemming the movement of so many folks, stemming the migration to our southern border.” After the announcement, Harris’ aides appeared to “panic,” according to one of the officials, out of concern that her assignment was being mischaracterized and could be politically damaging if she were linked to the border, which at the time was facing a growing number of arrivals. But another White House official pushed back on the sentiment, saying the vice president’s team wasn’t panicked.
Standard cautions about anonymously sourced journalism apply here, but the frantic effort to disassociate Harris from what Biden said she’d be doing is consistent with White House press secretary Jen Psaki’s “clarifying” about Harris’s role in late April “that her focus is not on the border” but “on addressing the root causes in the Northern Triangle,” as well as being consistent with Harris refusing to visit the border (allegedly due to “COVID issues” or the risk of disruption of a vice presidential visit) and going 69 days without holding a press conference since Biden’s announcement. The CNN report says that Harris is trying to avoid responsibility for pretty much exactly the reasons you’d expect:
One of the officials said Harris appears eager for a portfolio that will allow her to achieve political victories, especially in foreign policy, an area where she is far less experienced than Biden. Instead, Republican critics and the media have portrayed her new immigration role as a border assignment, potentially opening her up to criticism for the handling of the seemingly intractable problem.
The Democratic Party sure has come a long way from “the buck stops here.” This administration is visibly desperate to avoid images of what is happening at the border, to the point of blocking congressional Republicans from investigating firsthand the conditions in which migrants are being held. Harris clearly wants to be able to just organize a list of résumé-building “accomplishments,” rather than be judged on whether those things actually have any tangible results:
Harris and her staff have made it clear that they want to focus narrowly on diplomatic efforts in Mexico and the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, where they believe they are more likely to achieve tangible results in addressing the root causes of migration, like economic despair, said the officials. The recent commitments Harris secured from 12 private companies and organizations to invest in the Northern Triangle are one example.
But fixing “the root causes” of why people would rather live in America than Honduras is, itself, hardly a modest task. This is nation-building: an effort to change the economic and social conditions of a place that has been unable to make those changes itself. Our efforts over the past century at nation-building in many corners of the world have been spotty at best even when we have a significant “boots on the ground” presence of the U.S. military, let alone by just lining up a handful of donors and investors. As things currently stand, we can’t even create conditions that stop people from fleeing California, Illinois, and New York, but Harris thinks we can do it for El Salvador? No wonder she and her aides, already grappling with her manifest unpopularity, really do not want to have her measured against any yardstick beyond just showing up for work — and at the border, she won’t even do that.Dr. Anthony Fauci and Diana Bianchi, director of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, speak following a hearing in Washington, D.C., May 26, 2021. (Stefani Reynolds/Reuters)
Dr. Anthony Fauci is set to publish a book in November titled, “Expect the Unexpected: Ten Lessons on Truth, Service and the Way Forward.”
In the new book, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases shares his views on truth and the experiences that have shaped his “life philosophy.”
Advertisement
The 80-page book is filled with interviews that Fauci has conducted during his 34-year run as NIAID director. The book discusses Fauci’s role in seeing the country through a number of crises in that time, including AIDS, Ebola and COVID-19, according to Barnes & Noble’s overview of the book.
The book, which will be released by National Geographic Books on November 2, will discuss how to lead during a time of crisis, Barnes & Noble said.
“The earnest reflections in these pages offer a universal message on how to lead in times of crisis and find resilience in the face of disappointments and obstacles,” the overview said.
“Sure to strike a chord with readers, the inspiring words of wisdom in this book are centered around life lessons compiled from hours of interviews, offering a concrete path to a bright and hopeful future.”
Meanwhile, a children’s picture book about Fauci titled “Dr. Fauci: How a Boy from Brooklyn Became America’s Doctor” is due out later this month.
Fauci will also be the subject of a new “Disney-backed biopic” documentary that will be released on National Geographic later this year. Filmmakers reportedly followed Fauci throughout 2020 as he worked on the White House Coronavirus Task Force.
It is unclear how much Fauci is being paid for the book and if he will profit from the film. Fauci is currently the highest-paid federal employee in the country, drawing a salary of $417,608 per year. The U.S. President is paid less, with a salary of $400,000 per year.
The projects come as many have begun to question Fauci’s reputability after his repeated flip-flopping on masks and his role in downplaying the possibility that the COVID-19 pandemic originated in a lab leak in Wuhan, China. His comments on the risks of gain-of-function research and the possibility that such dangerous research was being conducted in Wuhan have garnered scrutiny as well.
Advertisement
Fauci is at least the second American leader to cash in on the COVID-19 pandemic, after now-disgraced New York Governor Andrew Cuomo released a book about leading the Empire State through the pandemic late last year. While Cuomo was paid $5.1 million for his book, it has only sold roughly 45,000 copies.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Dr. Anthony Fauci and Diana Bianchi, director of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, speak following a hearing in Washington, D.C., May 26, 2021. (Stefani Reynolds/Reuters)
Dr. Anthony Fauci is set to publish a book in November titled, “Expect the Unexpected: Ten Lessons on Truth, Service and the Way Forward.”
In the new book, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases shares his views on truth and the experiences that have shaped his “life philosophy.”
Advertisement
The 80-page book is filled with interviews that Fauci has conducted during his 34-year run as NIAID director. The book discusses Fauci’s role in seeing the country through a number of crises in that time, including AIDS, Ebola and COVID-19, according to Barnes & Noble’s overview of the book.
The book, which will be released by National Geographic Books on November 2, will discuss how to lead during a time of crisis, Barnes & Noble said.
“The earnest reflections in these pages offer a universal message on how to lead in times of crisis and find resilience in the face of disappointments and obstacles,” the overview said.
“Sure to strike a chord with readers, the inspiring words of wisdom in this book are centered around life lessons compiled from hours of interviews, offering a concrete path to a bright and hopeful future.”
Meanwhile, a children’s picture book about Fauci titled “Dr. Fauci: How a Boy from Brooklyn Became America’s Doctor” is due out later this month.
Fauci will also be the subject of a new “Disney-backed biopic” documentary that will be released on National Geographic later this year. Filmmakers reportedly followed Fauci throughout 2020 as he worked on the White House Coronavirus Task Force.
It is unclear how much Fauci is being paid for the book and if he will profit from the film. Fauci is currently the highest-paid federal employee in the country, drawing a salary of $417,608 per year. The U.S. President is paid less, with a salary of $400,000 per year.
The projects come as many have begun to question Fauci’s reputability after his repeated flip-flopping on masks and his role in downplaying the possibility that the COVID-19 pandemic originated in a lab leak in Wuhan, China. His comments on the risks of gain-of-function research and the possibility that such dangerous research was being conducted in Wuhan have garnered scrutiny as well.
Advertisement
Fauci is at least the second American leader to cash in on the COVID-19 pandemic, after now-disgraced New York Governor Andrew Cuomo released a book about leading the Empire State through the pandemic late last year. While Cuomo was paid $5.1 million for his book, it has only sold roughly 45,000 copies.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.(via the Sisters of Life)
Later today, the Sisters of Life will have a small Mass in thanksgiving for the founding of their religious community 30 years ago today in (relatively) upstate New York. It’s amazing to me that something so beautiful has been founded in my lifetime. Over 100 women have dedicated their lives to this beautiful charism to protect human life. It’s about so much more than abortion and assisted suicide and other violence against the human person. It’s about love.
Not too long ago, I was talking with a 17-year-old girl who had started the chemical abortion process. She was willing to speak to the Sisters, who could help her reverse the effects of the first pill. She smiled as I suggested she let them love her, whatever her decision wound up being. That’s who they are. God’s love in a world of screaming about abortion. They bring His peace and give girls and women a chance to breathe and find healing, sometimes decades after abortion.
This is from an email the Sisters sent out this morning, which captures why I love them so and encourage everyone to get to know them and support them:
We are overjoyed at the Lord’s abundant kindness and mercy at ushering the Charism of Life into the world, that each person may know the immeasurable sacredness and beauty of their soul. Each Sister of Life who has made vows wears a medal inscribed with words from a favorite poem of our founder: “I Sing of a Maiden” by Fr. John Duffy, CSsR. “And nothing would again be casual or small.” When God became Man, “nothing would again be casual or small, but everything with light invested, over-spilled with terror and divinity.” Now, every human experience has meaning in the plan of God. No ounce of suffering escapes His merciful gaze. Each person is a wonder to be loved and delighted in. Nothing — and no one — is casual or small, because Christ is Lord of all.
Knowing the Sisters means new insight on our lives and the lives of others. I’m enchanted and challenged by those words from Fr. Duffy on the Annunciation. If nothing again is casual and small, why do we go about our days treating people casually? Thinking and acting as if they aren’t the most important person in the world? Christ’s Incarnation is for each and every one of us. Believers in Christianity or not, each person was made by Love in love for love.
This is a reflection from their founder, Cardinal John O’Connor about their lives, which they also sent out today in their “30 Years of Grace” email:
Mary had conceived the Word of God beneath her heart, that Word who was one with God from all eternity, that Word that had been placed in the Ark of the Covenant. That word is now in Mary’s womb. For this reason, “Nothing would again be casual or small, but everything with light invested, over-spilled with terror and divinity.” This to me is the meaning of the consecrated life. This is what the vows do. The person who opens her heart, her mind, her womb as it were, to the Word of God, will find that nothing again will ever be casual or small, but everything will be invested with light and over-spilled with divinity, because the Word is the light of the world. The Word illumines everything with new being. You cannot receive the Word fully, so that it becomes flesh of your flesh, blood of your blood, and still look at the world in the same way. Above all, you cannot fully receive the Word yourself and look at any other human being as you did before. Everything is now over-spilled with terror and divinity. Everything is illuminated.
Beyond the Sisters, his reflection reminds me of the message Pope Benedict handed me in October 2012 for all the women of the world. It wasn’t a new message, but one that if we took seriously, would be a resplendent game-changer:
But the hour is coming, in fact has come, when the vocation of woman is being achieved in its fullness, the hour in which woman acquires in the world an influence, an effect and a power never hitherto achieved. That is why, at this moment when the human race is under-going so deep a transformation, women impregnated with the spirit of the Gospel can do so much to aid mankind in not falling. Women, you do know how to make truth sweet, tender and accessible. . . . Women of the entire universe, whether Christian or non-believing, you to whom life is entrusted at this grave moment in history, it is for you to save the peace of the world.
The Sisters are living this life and then some. They deserve our prayers and support. We should know them, help them, celebrate them, and let people know about them. They remind us that our lives are not casual or small, and that no one’s is.
Do support the Sisters of Life — our pro-life credibility — if you can.
And please get to know them — and share something of them today.
There are many YouTube videos here.
There’s a podcast here.
There are stories you can read here.
Check out their beautiful quarterly IMPRINT magazine. You can sign up for the free print edition here.
And there is more, if you explore their website.As I was writing earlier about the Fulton case, I was receiving emails about my hatred for gay people, hating them so much that I’ll put children’s lives in danger. I certainly hope I don’t hate anyone. We are all on this earth with the struggle of being humans. We all have challenges, and I want to encourage other, not condemn them. At the same time, we live in a country that was founded on principles of freedom — religious freedom chief among them. You are free to believe in God, to not believe in God, to believe in lots of things. And it’s not outlandish — or hateful — to say that a Catholic agency has the right to operate as its conscience dictates. We want people to be in the foster-care space who believe the Beatitudes are a duty! There will be other agencies, including Christian agencies, who will decide they can make the adjustment, living in the world as it is. I think we live in a nation with tyrannical impulses on both sides, so to speak. The Fulton case really is about religious liberty and not about hurting wounded people. Can we see it is possible to have different opinions about things without hating one another?(Pixabay)
During earlier rounds of the debate over research on human embryos — back in the days of the George W. Bush administration, when the issue was a major political controversy — the advocates of allowing and federally funding that research explained that carefully drawn ethical limits would be observed. Research would not be permitted after the embryos had developed to the 14-day mark.
Advertisement
The opponents, mostly pro-lifers, said that these advocates were at best fooling themselves. There was no principled difference between killing a human embryo at 14 days and killing one at 15 days, and the attempted distinction would collapse the moment any pressure were put on it.
That moment is now upon us. Researchers are now capable of going past 14 days, they believe that it would offer some benefits to do so, and so they want to get rid of the line before they actually run up against it. A campaign to relax the rules has been under way for a few years now, and the International Society for Stem Cell Research — one of those rarefied lobbying groups that has the good fortune not to get described as such — has just endorsed it. To the ISSCR’s limited credit, it is not going through the charade of proposing a new fake time limit to replace 14 days. It just wants to scrap the limit altogether while suggesting a case-by-case review of research.
It would also give a green light to research on embryos that are partly human and partly nonhuman animals. The rationale is that these chimeras would be sufficiently human to shed light on human biology and to offer potential therapeutic applications for humans — perhaps even providing organs for transplantation — without being so human that the experiments would have to be tightly constrained. For people of a morally sound sensibility, to describe this idea should be enough to cause its instant rejection.
Advertisement
The Senate has, however, voted down an amendment to bar federal funding for research on such chimeras, with all the Democrats voting against and all the Republicans in favor. Media coverage of the issue has been light, and has sometimes treated the issue as a bizarre invention of social conservatives. A more extended debate is worth pushing for, as is legislation that entirely bans the creation of chimeras with partly human brains or reproductive systems rather than merely denying taxpayer funds to research on them.
The National Institutes of Health, meanwhile, should reject the ISSCR’s invitation for it to shred existing ethical limitations. Their defect is not that they are too tight. Ideally we would follow the policies of such countries as Germany and Turkey, more advanced than we are in this respect, which ban the destruction of human embryos for research purposes altogether. The organization’s proposal to relax the rules the moment they could start to have any effect is a good reason to think that industry self-regulation is radically insufficient when it comes to matters of basic human rights.Shane Graham and Ludacris in The Ride. (Roadside Attractions/Trailer image via YouTube)
May 31 is a number of things – Memorial Day, of course. The Feast of the Visitation, when we remember when a pregnant Mary visited a pregnant Elizabeth, miracles, both. And May 31 is also the last day of National Foster Care month. I’ve not been as obnoxious as I sometimes am about the month. In part, I think that’s because many of us have been waiting in anticipation for the Supreme Court to issue its decision in the Fulton case, which involves religious liberty and the very lives of children in Philadelphia. Children in foster care don’t have time for adults to come to peace with all our fundamental disagreements. We need more choices for children, not less. And yet, ideology so often gets in the way. Pluralism is often considered an enemy these days, but it’s the only way.
I wanted to highlight something that I saw on Facebook this morning, from someone who has written on this site about foster care and adoption. Lisa Wheeler is an adoptive parent from foster care.
Day#31: #NationalFosterCareAwarenessMonth. I did a horrible job posting this month about foster care but May 31 always reminds me how foster care and The Feast of the Visitation will always be a part of our story. National Foster Care Awareness month ends on the Feast of the Visitation. It always amazes me. This simple encounter between Elizabeth and Mary that produced the great Magnificat, the Hail Mary and personally my favorite quote from the Bible, “Blessed is she who believed that God’s promises to her would be fulfilled.” There is so much wrapped up in today’s Encounter between these two women, not the least of which is the story of hospitality and stewardship to those “expecting” among us. The foster families within our churches and communities are in a constant state of expectation, and in that condition of waiting need desperately for those around them to “be in haste” as Mary was for Elizabeth so that the children in their care can receive the love and support they so desperately deserve. All month long those of us in foster care advocacy have worked to make our communities more aware of the needs of foster children and foster families and to help open more widely the doors of hospitality to those in our midst with time, talent and treasures to give and to journey with us towards solving the foster care crisis in America. There are no coincidences in time when God is the clock maker.
Earlier this month, I held in my arms the most precious little baby, who is the foster care of a lovely couple who love him beyond beyond, as they say. It’s the kind of love Christianity is all about. I know a Jewish couple who went through some agony in a non-foster adoption recently, and all of these people are true love in the world.
I see hearts everywhere lately – and then there’s the rainbows to come in June – but a healthy society knows what true love is and would care about the children without homes. They would care that these children, if they age out of the system, will get themselves arrested to have some basic security.
Advertisement
New York has been so dark over these past months in many ways. When I encounter a man screaming the f-word through the streets, or passed out in the middle of the day, or searching through the garbage, I can’t help but wonder who didn’t care about him when he was young and innocent and in need of true self-sacrificial love. It’s not always the case, but children need love, otherwise, what do you expect?
That’s not to make excuses for personal choices. But how can we prevent the kind of detrimental outcomes that lead to misery – and crime and addiction and all the rest? Making sure every child has a family sure couldn’t hurt.
A few things you might want to read with National Foster Care Month in mind, from this month and others:
Advertisement
Focus on the Child in Foster Care, Not on Ideologies
Don’t Mix Up Adoption and Maternal Health, Worthy Causes, with Abortion
Talking about Foster Care, Adoption, and The Ride
Why Are Children in Philadelphia Without Homes? How Can We Do Better?
Caring for the Orphan
Keeping Siblings Together: A Mother’s Love Story
Can a Divided Country Unite for Kids in Foster Care?
Is the Government Keeping Kids from Flourishing?Shane Graham and Ludacris in The Ride. (Roadside Attractions/Trailer image via YouTube)
May 31 is a number of things – Memorial Day, of course. The Feast of the Visitation, when we remember when a pregnant Mary visited a pregnant Elizabeth, miracles, both. And May 31 is also the last day of National Foster Care month. I’ve not been as obnoxious as I sometimes am about the month. In part, I think that’s because many of us have been waiting in anticipation for the Supreme Court to issue its decision in the Fulton case, which involves religious liberty and the very lives of children in Philadelphia. Children in foster care don’t have time for adults to come to peace with all our fundamental disagreements. We need more choices for children, not less. And yet, ideology so often gets in the way. Pluralism is often considered an enemy these days, but it’s the only way.
I wanted to highlight something that I saw on Facebook this morning, from someone who has written on this site about foster care and adoption. Lisa Wheeler is an adoptive parent from foster care.
Day#31: #NationalFosterCareAwarenessMonth. I did a horrible job posting this month about foster care but May 31 always reminds me how foster care and The Feast of the Visitation will always be a part of our story. National Foster Care Awareness month ends on the Feast of the Visitation. It always amazes me. This simple encounter between Elizabeth and Mary that produced the great Magnificat, the Hail Mary and personally my favorite quote from the Bible, “Blessed is she who believed that God’s promises to her would be fulfilled.” There is so much wrapped up in today’s Encounter between these two women, not the least of which is the story of hospitality and stewardship to those “expecting” among us. The foster families within our churches and communities are in a constant state of expectation, and in that condition of waiting need desperately for those around them to “be in haste” as Mary was for Elizabeth so that the children in their care can receive the love and support they so desperately deserve. All month long those of us in foster care advocacy have worked to make our communities more aware of the needs of foster children and foster families and to help open more widely the doors of hospitality to those in our midst with time, talent and treasures to give and to journey with us towards solving the foster care crisis in America. There are no coincidences in time when God is the clock maker.
Earlier this month, I held in my arms the most precious little baby, who is the foster care of a lovely couple who love him beyond beyond, as they say. It’s the kind of love Christianity is all about. I know a Jewish couple who went through some agony in a non-foster adoption recently, and all of these people are true love in the world.
I see hearts everywhere lately – and then there’s the rainbows to come in June – but a healthy society knows what true love is and would care about the children without homes. They would care that these children, if they age out of the system, will get themselves arrested to have some basic security.
Advertisement
New York has been so dark over these past months in many ways. When I encounter a man screaming the f-word through the streets, or passed out in the middle of the day, or searching through the garbage, I can’t help but wonder who didn’t care about him when he was young and innocent and in need of true self-sacrificial love. It’s not always the case, but children need love, otherwise, what do you expect?
That’s not to make excuses for personal choices. But how can we prevent the kind of detrimental outcomes that lead to misery – and crime and addiction and all the rest? Making sure every child has a family sure couldn’t hurt.
A few things you might want to read with National Foster Care Month in mind, from this month and others:
Advertisement
Focus on the Child in Foster Care, Not on Ideologies
Don’t Mix Up Adoption and Maternal Health, Worthy Causes, with Abortion
Talking about Foster Care, Adoption, and The Ride
Why Are Children in Philadelphia Without Homes? How Can We Do Better?
Caring for the Orphan
Keeping Siblings Together: A Mother’s Love Story
Can a Divided Country Unite for Kids in Foster Care?
Is the Government Keeping Kids from Flourishing?Aboard the USS Missouri at the conclusion of the formal surrender of Japan, September 2, 1945. (Army Signal Corps/National Archives)
One of the best films of last year was a documentary about the end of the war in the Pacific. Unfortunately that movie, Apocalypse ’45, got only a limited theatrical release, but it is finally available to view at home, via the new streaming service Discovery Plus. I mentioned Apocalypse ’45 as my sixth-best film of 2020 and wrote:
Released to mark the 75th anniversary of V-J Day, this documentary implicitly demolishes the fatuous argument, advanced every August, that the U.S. should never have dropped atomic bombs on Japan. The other options — invading mainland Japan or starving it via blockade — would have caused even more suffering for the Japanese, and the U.S. was under no obligation to spend more of our servicemen’s lives while vanquishing an insane and evil death cult. Vivid color footage, some of it never seen before, set against matter-of-fact voice-over narration by veterans of the Pacific War, illustrates the agonizing toll on both sides of the island-hopping campaign across such thunderously defended rocks as Iwo Jima. The film is punctuated with harrowing footage of kamikaze attacks and civilian suicides that illustrate how grotesquely warped was the culture of Imperial Japan.
An excellent companion piece by the same director, Erik Nelson, is The Cold Blue, a documentary about the harrowing lives of bomber pilots in World War II, which is streaming on HBO Max. I wrote in 2018:
Men from B-17 crews speak in Nelson’s film of watching planes flying in such close formation that occasionally two would collide, each of them crashing. Pilots had to remind their ten-man crews not to waste too much time gawping at crashing planes; there was work to do. Unlike the British, who ordinarily flew at night, American bombers were told to carry out their runs in broad daylight, over heavily defended targets. Their planes were not pressurized or heated. “On a warm day, it would be 28 below. Sometimes it got 60 below,” recalls one veteran. One man’s hands froze to a plexiglass window and his fingers had to be amputated. Frostbite could set in within ten minutes.A nun from the Missionaries of Charity holds a prayer card with an image of Mother Teresa. (Gary Cameron/Reuters)
Love. Love. Love. So needed and yet so stifled
‘A father and mother — by loving their children, by loving one another, they are loving God.”
“The family that prays together, stays together. But more and more we see that families are not staying together, and this is the greatest destroyer of peace in the world.”
“If there is so much disturbance in the world today, if there is so much sadness, so much killing and anxiety, it is because the family is no longer united. . . . Father against mother, children against children, . . . a mother committing a murder in her own womb.”
Advertisement
“If a mother can kill her own child, what is there to stop others from killing one another?”
Well, I guess those are fighting words today. They are from 1997 Nobel Peace Prize winner and canonized saint, Mother Teresa of Calcutta. She was recently subject to the New York Times headline “Was Mother Teresa a Cult Leader?” The author of the opinion piece pointed to a recent documentary that depicts the Missionaries of Charity, which Mother Teresa founded, “as a hive of psychological abuse and coercion.” The film “raises the question of whether the difference between a strict monastic community and a cult lies simply in the social acceptability of the operative faith.”
This is far from the first time there has been criticism of Mother Teresa. The late Christopher Hitchens was the negative color commentator on ABC’s coverage of her funeral. Archbishop of Los Angeles José Gómez, who is the current president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, once said of Dorothy Day, “I don’t know if she’s a saint, but I know she makes me want to be one.” I feel similarly about Mother Teresa — though I’m confident she’s a saint. I also know that doesn’t mean she was perfect.
We have a problem when we think of saints as perfect. Or weirdos. They actually aren’t as exotic as we make them out to be. They are people who, by surrender to God and His supernatural grace, displayed heroic virtue — people truly living the Beatitudes. That’s certainly not supposed to be a rarity.
Advertisement
And yet, do we really think that there wasn’t something heroically virtuous about Mother Teresa, who cared for so many in their intense suffering? The late Cardinal John O’Connor, while he was being vilified and sacrilegiously attacked by ACT UP activists for teaching Catholic sexual morality, would quietly spend hours without cameras caring for men dying of AIDS in a Missionary of Charities home in Manhattan. His successor, Cardinal Timothy Dolan, tells the story of an experience from his young priesthood in Washington, D.C., in one of their homes. A dying man had asked to see a priest, after spending his time spitting and saying the vilest things to the Missionaries of Charity caring for him. He wanted to be baptized. He wanted to be a part of whatever it was that gave them the love with which they loved him, even while he was being so terrible to them. That’s a miracle. That’s what love is.
I can’t tell you that psychiatrists would agree with everything the Missionaries of Charity do, or that medical doctors would, for that matter. They care for people, probably without social distancing now and again during COVID-19. But we need people like that. We need prudence, but sometimes the embrace needs to happen, or the heart and soul may die. People died of other things than the coronavirus in the past year or so. COVID-19 isn’t our only pandemic. People feeling alone, even in their über-connectedness — that’s devastating in ways we don’t always recognize. The MCs reach out to people cast aside. We need more people like them, not fewer.
Religious community life, such as the Missionaries of Charity live, requires obedience. That’s an extreme humility to modern ears, but it also makes room for tremendous charity, something we could also use more of, as we so often do, maybe especially after these pandemic days, when we are talking about inflation. There is a beauty to religious community life that is foreign to us. But perhaps instead of attacking, we might see what we can learn from the likes of the Missionaries of Charity, or my beloved New York–founded friends, the Sisters of Life, and others.
“If today there is so much suffering in the world, so much pain, it is because the child — the unborn child, the innocent child — is unwanted, unloved, uncared for,” Mother Teresa said. Again, these might not win an opinion poll if cast in terms of politics. But could that simply be a challenge? Pro-life or pro-choice — can’t we agree with her here?
I think the best gift we can give to any child is to make that child feel wanted, loved, cared for — because that child is the greatest gift of God to the family, to the nation, to the world. Because that child is the Life of God, created for greater things, in the image of God — to love and to be loved.
That’s about way more than abortion — although it is certainly about that. A recent court ruling seems to make it next to impossible to talk to a young girl or woman walking into an abortion clinic. Why not allow for real choice? There’s nothing like informed consent happening in many places today when a scared teenager walks in for an abortion. And what about all the 400,000-plus children in foster care? Isn’t it possible that all the violence we see today has to do with our callousness and ignorance and indifference on these fronts? Instead of attacking Mother Teresa — or dismissing her — we’d be better off if we learned from her.
Thanks be to God she is praying for us. We clearly need the help.
This column is based on one available through Andrews McMeel Universal’s Newspaper Enterprise Association.East and West German citizens celebrate as they climb the Berlin wall at the Brandenburg gate after the opening of the East German border was announced in Berlin, November 9, 1989. (Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters)
Continuing in the spirit of belatedly weighing in on things, I would like to join several of my National Review colleagues (past and present) in proclaiming the greatness of the German-language film The Lives of Others. Released in 2006 and directed by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck, The Lives of Others is a moving, intimate, and haunting depiction of life under the Communist regime in East Germany, as revealed through the complicated interaction of an agent of the East German Stasi secret police with the target of his surveillance. After many years of intending to do so, I finally watched it last night, and my goodness was it worth the wait.
Advertisement
Contemporary critical opinion, both here and elsewhere, was on the mark in praising The Lives of Others. Here in the Corner in 2007, John Podhoretz called it “one of the greatest movies ever made.” In 2009, John Miller ranked it No. 1 on his famous list of best conservative movies of the past 25 years. His ranking quotes William F. Buckley, still alive for the film’s release, who, after seeing the film in a theater with a friend, turned to him and said, “I think that is the best movie I ever saw.” Even the Oscars had a rare outbreak of good sense, bestowing upon The Lives of Others the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. For an industry with such an ambiguous record concerning communism to have assented to the greatness of a sternly anti-communist film is a true testament to the film’s greatness.
Without giving too much away, in case anyone else wants to get in on my slowpoke act, one criticism some have made of the movie is that the arc of the central character, a Stasi agent, is unrealistic. First Things provided a convincing case to the contrary at the time, one that I think holds up. But anyone who hasn’t seen the movie yet should do so to judge for himself.Karl Marx sculpture in Chemnitz, Germany. (Hannibal Hanschke/Reuters)
The wisdom and relevance of his salvo against Darwin, Marx, and Wagner endures, 80 years later.
Eighty years ago, in that ominous year 1941, the Franco-American historian Jacques Barzun (1903–2012) published a work of cultural history that has retained power and relevance when most such books, however worthy, live a life of temporary influence and then are occasionally consulted on the shelves of university libraries. Darwin, Marx, Wagner: Critique of a Heritage has had a longer and deeper subsequent influence, being republished in only slightly revised editions but with new prefaces in 1958 and 1981 and frequently reprinted in paperback. It is a great, antiseptic book, almost as necessary now as it was at the high tide of German National Socialist “racial science” and Soviet Communist “scientific socialism” in 1941, and just as these two ferocious states and ideologies commenced their terrible war on the European Eastern Front, caused by the unexpected betrayal by Hitler of the Nazi–Soviet “nonaggression pact” that had been in effect since August 1939 and that had allowed these two totalitarian predators to conquer, divide up, and devour the small, free states of Eastern Europe.
Advertisement
Barzun’s book was very timely as the political and even allegedly scientific prestige of Nazism and Communism was at its zenith all over the West, and one or other of these two novel, hypermodern ideologies seemed to many people of all classes to be the wave of the future that the economically depressed, morally bedraggled states of Western Europe and North America could only look on with envy and trepidation. France, Britain, and the United States had gone through an intellectually “Red decade” in which Marxists had not taken power but nevertheless occupied the high ground in public debate. Roosevelt’s New Deal had not achieved American recovery, whereas Japan and Italy had taken the Fascist-Nazi-Nationalist-Imperialist road so spectacularly, vigorously, and apparently unstoppably pursued in the conquest of most of continental Europe by Hitler and his high-tech War Machine between 1938 and 1941.
Advertisement
Barzun’s targets were three thinkers whose works and perspectives had acquired in the period after 1859 an immense influence, leading at first to what Barzun’s teacher Carlton J. H. Hayes called, in a fine political and cultural history also published in 1941, “a generation of materialism” (referring to the period 1871–1900), and then to a deepening application of its materialistic and deterministic theories of “the struggle for survival” and “the survival of the fittest” of races, nations, and classes, transforming the theories into the ferocious modern totalitarian ideologies of the early and mid 20th century — Communism, Fascism, and Nazism.
Though the composer Richard Wagner (1813–1883) may seem to us an anomaly in this connection, his prestige and glamour in the late 19th and early 20th centuries were immense and a key part of the German nationalist-Nazi “Kultur” mystique, and his aestheticism (the artist as hero, art as salvation, aesthetic experience as the highest truth) was widespread throughout the West, and in fact has left a toxic residue on Western — and now world — culture ever since. The English musicologist A. E. F. Dickinson wrote reverently of Wagner in 1926: “He has virtually discovered the means of expressing the character of man and god in pure form, in the form most congenial to his nature, music.” Art had become a religion.
Advertisement
Barzun himself was a French emigrant to the United States, along with his cultured, Parisian parents, in the immediate aftermath of the catastrophic World War I, which affected them all deeply. His father was a poet and art theorist and his mother a sophisticated modern woman — and the younger Barzun would become a distinguished scholar of music and art as well as of literature and history at Columbia University, where he was educated and spent a very distinguished career as professor of history and as an administrator (dean of graduate faculties, provost) for a half century, ultimately winning major recognitions as one the country’s most outstanding humanistic scholars and public intellectuals — president of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, Mellon Lecturer at the National Gallery of Art (1973), recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President George W. Bush (2003), and the National Humanities Medal from President Barack Obama (2011). The American Philosophical Society created the Jacques Barzun Prize in Cultural History in 1993 and an endowed chair was named in his honor at Columbia.
The human person’s “supreme pleasure and prerogative,” he was to write, “is to feel himself at once a moral being and a natural philosopher.” It is precisely the idea that all persons are ultimately “philosophers” and must make evaluative judgments and decisions in the many areas of life that made Barzun, from early to late, a philosophical historian — our greatest — and one with a great respect for republican and democratic institutions and for public literacy and civic discourse. (In late life he called himself “a Chestertonian.”) It is the very clarity of his prose and his critique of mystification and corrupting jargon that make all of his books, however vastly learned, a pleasure to read. Deploring the massive educational influence of John Dewey, whom Barzun had as a teacher at Columbia, he said late in life that Dewey “could not talk coherently, in intelligible language. He would eject phrases. His books are little better than his conversation and lectures. He was revered because he rendered William James’s conclusions in a more abstract way — worked them out for the academic mind, which mistrusts clarity” (emphasis added).
Advertisement
Barzun’s case against both Darwin and Marx is that both are writers of evasive, convoluted, confused prose that obscures not only truth itself but their own scientistic, mechanistic premises about the meaninglessness of mind, free will, and purpose in human affairs. He himself had started out his own academic career by writing a strongly anti-racialist book in 1937, Race: A Study in Modern Superstition, at a time when Darwinian “racial science” was riding high not only in Germany but throughout the West, leading to eugenic laws in several American states even before the Nazi national policy of eliminating “lives unworthy of life.” Four years later, in Darwin, Marx, Wagner, Barzun went on to write: “No doubt the ‘favoured races’ mentioned on the title page of Darwin’s Origin of Species referred to pigeons, but the extension of the term to man was easy to make; indeed it seemed to receive Darwin’s own approval on many a page of [his] Descent of Man, where the struggle of races was a part of evolutionary advance.” In 1999, Terence Kealey, lecturer in clinical biochemistry at Cambridge University, noted that “the only professional group in Germany to register a greater than 50 percent membership of the Nazi Party before 1933, when the careerists joined, was that of academic biologists. Hitler believed in the state planning of society and in eugenics, and so did they.” The English man of letters A. N. Wilson, author of a recent book on Darwin, wrote in 2006: “Darwin, the product of British imperialism, was surely the father, among other things, of European fascism.” And the American historian Richard Weikart has made this argument clearly and in documented detail in From Darwin to Hitler: Evolutionary Ethics, Eugenics, and Racism in Germany (2004; see my review, “Murderous Science,” in NR, March 28, 2005).
Advertisement
In the aftermath of Barzun’s own groundbreaking 1941 critique of mechanistic Darwinism and its sociopolitical uses and effects, and clearly influenced by it, two other powerful books were published that lucidly covered the relevant and related issues — Richard Hofstadter’s Social Darwinism in American Thought (1944) and Gertrude Himmelfarb’s exhaustive, detailed Darwin and the Darwinian Revolution (1959). Like Barzun himself, Hofstadter and Himmelfarb are among the great American historians of the last 75 years, both recipients of the highest honors and commendations; yet the books are oddly neglected in our time, when renewed conceptions of “sociobiology” and “evolutionary psychology” are again widely promoted and uncritically taught.
Advertisement
Following on the efforts of historians such as Hofstadter, Himmelfarb, and Weikart, philosophical and scientific accounts of the deficiencies of Darwinism have been made by philosophers such as Thomas Nagel (Mind and Cosmos: Why the Materialist Neo-Darwinian Conception of Nature Is Almost Certainly False, 2012; see my review, “Rationality vs. Darwinism,” NR, November 12, 2012) and by scientists such as the award-winning English science writer and physician James LeFanu (Why Us?, 2009; see my review, “Science Illuminated,” Modern Age, fall 2011) and the geophysicist and historian of science Stephen C. Meyer in three major books that have attracted great attention: Signature in the Cell (2009), Darwin’s Doubt (2013), and, most recently, Return of the God Hypothesis (2021).
Advertisement
Regarding Marx and Marxism, in 1980, before the fall of Western Communism, the émigré Hungarian-American physicist and historian and philosopher of science Stanley L. Jaki wrote that “the enthusiasm for Darwinism of the advocates of the dictatorship of the proletariat . . . is all too understandable. Marx was quick to notice the usefulness of Darwinist theory for promoting class struggle.” The discrediting of Marxism has mainly been done by the course of large-scale human history since the fall of Western Communism in 1990, including firsthand, first-rate Russian documentary literature by Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Andrei Sinyavsky, and Nadezhda Mandelstam, and by exhaustive historical surveys such as the French Black Book on Communism (1997) by Stéphane Courtois and his associates. In the same vein, Jung Chang and Jon Halliday in their biography Mao (2005) have examined the crimes of Communism in China, and the theoretical pretensions of the political philosophy have been decisively analyzed and debunked by the great émigré Polish ex-Marxist philosopher Leszek Kolakowski in his three-volume Main Currents of Marxism (1976).
But Barzun’s short anatomy of Marx and Marxism, quietly devastating, is permanently worth reading for its clear understanding and lucid explanation of the self-contradictory and damaging character of Marxism and all forms of reductionism. He insists on the perennial need for an at least minimally accurate description of human personality, the reality of the human mind, and the scope of human free will. (Reductionism, he wrote in 1964, “is congenial to the modern temper, and what it reduces is the individual.”)
In regard to Wagner and aestheticism since Barzun’s book joined the critique of them to that of Darwin and Marx, a great deal of value has been written, but at least three volumes deserve mention — Frederic Spotts’s copiously illustrated Hitler and the Power of Aesthetics (2003) being the most recent. The other two are by Barzun himself — his 1973 A. W. Mellon Lectures at the U.S. National Gallery of Art, published by Princeton University Press as The Use and Abuse of Art (1974), and his final masterpiece of cultural history, From Dawn to Decadence: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life (2000), many years in preparation and published when he was 93 years old.
From his first major publication, the 1937 anti-racialist book Race: A Study in Modern Superstition, through his many other books, to From Dawn to Decadence 63 years later, Barzun developed and deepened his analyses, but he also stayed true to a few central insights that remain perennially relevant, and particularly so in our own time when a combination of unhealthy and unhelpful factors have conspired to obscure or occlude from us certain central human realities and the implications of the apocalyptic character of much of human history since 1914, when World War I began what Sidney Hook later called “the second Fall of Man.” Documenting Darwin’s own convoluted logical and rhetorical twists and turns in the various editions of The Origin of Species (as Himmelfarb would do in more detail in 1959), Barzun says that “the gladiatorial conception of the struggle for existence was here to stay” — surely daily newspapers made the point throughout 1941. And he quotes and approves a then-recent biographer of Darwin, Geoffrey West, about neglecting the irreducible and unique moral and metaphysical dimension of the human person. By pointing out this neglect, Darwin’s old Cambridge teacher and sharp critic, the geologist Adam Sedgwick, West writes, “leapt . . . right to the heart of the matter in a prophetic passage whose insight should be more apparent now, when the increasing brutalization and degradation of humanity are no more to be denied than detached from concepts of evolution and natural selection.”
Advertisement
What “the generation of materialism” succeeded in doing was to debunk and help render less and less visible and credible that “moral and metaphysical part” of the human person in the interest of “gladiatorial” individual, national, class, and racial strife, brutal realpolitik, cynical “realism.” This had — and has — of course always been a human possibility — “homo homini lupus,” man the ruthless, wolfish devourer of man, who whom?, subject-object, exploiter-exploited; social Darwinism in its various forms. In Virtue Politics, the Harvard Renaissance scholar James Hankins has recently pointed out anew that the sly Machiavelli was the great betrayer of the ethical traditions of medieval civilization and Renaissance humanism alike. Professor Jeffrey Collins writes: “The Florentine’s ‘demoralizing’ redefinition of virtù as a manly capacity to master fortune was directly aimed at the humanist [ethical] tradition that Hankins” writes about.
The novelty of Darwinian “natural selection,” “survival of the fittest,” and “racial science,” and of vengeful, illusory Marxist “scientific socialism” and class war, is that both posed as truly empirical, scientific descriptions of reality. But they aren’t: they are speculative inferences, theoretically contradictory and historically false, as 20th-century history has catastrophically and tragically shown.
As early as his 1941 volume Barzun had seen profoundly into the real dynamics at work in Darwinism and Marxism:
It is no longer possible to view the storm around the Origin of Species merely as a battle over evolution — “man’s descent from the monkeys” or the literal truth of Genesis — much less as the victory of unprejudiced inquirers into Nature’s secrets over the forces of bigotry and darkness. It appears, rather, as a major incident, neither the first nor the last, in the dispute between the believers in consciousness and the believers in mechanical action; the believers in purpose and the believers in pure chance. The so-called warfare between science and religion thus comes to be seen as the warfare between two philosophies.
The true historian (or philosopher) needs by all means to define and identify the features of chance and necessity operative in reality; but the very capacity and process of doing so gives evidence of his own consciousness and rational purpose. By doggedly and eloquently making and applying this kind of perennial argument, Jacques Barzun became the greatest of American cultural historians and an enduring resource in the arsenal of sanity and virtue.(gorodenkoff/Getty Images)
The decisions facing us today are too important to leave to executive agencies.
Science and technology are transforming the ways we communicate, travel, produce goods and services, conduct warfare, and protect our health. Yet our elected officials and government institutions seem surprisingly ill-equipped to understand, much less address, the many challenges and opportunities posed by modern science and technology, from artificial intelligence and climate change to pandemics and digital disinformation.
Advertisement
Earlier this year, Congress held a hearing to consider ways of addressing the “brain drain” in the federal scientific workforce. Calls like this to equip government with more and better expertise are a response to the gap between our elected officials’ technical capacity and the importance of science and technology for society as a whole. Closing this gap is more important now than ever, as we emerge from the coronavirus pandemic and try to assess what went wrong in the government’s handling of it and how to prepare for the next large-scale threat.
President Biden has taken note, making science and technology policy a top priority of his administration. To this end, the White House has elevated the Office of Science and Technology Policy to a cabinet-level position, launched a new “scientific integrity task force,” and called for large increases in federal research and development (R&D) funding.
Advertisement
Congress, too, has made science and technology a top priority, calling for over $100 billion in R&D funding in an effort to secure American global leadership. Yet Congress has done little, if anything, to address its own “brain drain.” The decline of technical expertise in our government is inseparable from another worrisome trend: a weakening of congressional capacity that has left Congress ineffective, not only lagging behind the private sector but also overly deferential to executive agencies.
Executive agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Food and Drug Administration, play a pivotal role in science and technology policy, especially when it comes to such issues as environmental and drug regulation or pandemic preparedness and response. And while these agencies may well need more expertise to do their jobs effectively, the Constitution empowers Congress — the most democratic branch of our federal government — to make laws and to oversee the executive agencies to which it delegates such power.
For instance, it is Congress’s job to determine what went wrong in the government’s pandemic response and how to prevent such mistakes in the future. Yet conducting this kind of oversight requires expertise, not only in the relevant policy and legal domains but also in technical fields such as epidemiology, virology, genomics, and public health. Unfortunately, however, Congress has a dearth of such expertise, since it has depleted its own sources of technical knowledge over the years. Emblematic of such self-inflicted incapacity was Congress’s decision in 1995 to close the Office of Technology Assessment (OTA).
The OTA was a congressional agency designed to supply Congress with an independent source of science and technology expertise. It was created in 1972 in response to concerns much like those of today — about the impacts of science and technology, Congress’s inability to grapple with them, and the growth of the executive branch. The agency operated from 1974 to 1995, when it was shuttered by congressional Republicans in an effort to shrink the federal government. Ironically, the result was not smaller government, but a Congress less capable of overseeing executive agencies and keeping them in line.
Advertisement
There were two principal motivations for Congress’s decision to create the OTA. First, World War II had transformed the public role of science and technology. During the war, the federal government had begun to make substantial investments in, and to exert considerable control over, science and technology — most famously with the Manhattan Project. After the war, the government played an increasingly active role, with a view to stimulating technological innovation, especially in the face of fierce competition with Russia. By the 1950s, the federal government was by far the biggest funder of U.S. R&D.
Yet, as the government became more involved with science and technology, the executive branch took the lead. Besides footing the (considerable) bill for federal R&D, Congress played little more than a perfunctory role in science and technology policy. Not only had Congress ceded science and technology policy to the executive branch, it also found itself without the technical expertise needed for oversight of the executive branch in these increasingly important areas.
Advertisement
This state of affairs contrasted starkly with the executive branch, in which scientific experts had come to play a decisive role, epitomized by Vannevar Bush, President Roosevelt’s science adviser and director of the government’s wartime research. After World War II, the role of the presidential science adviser grew in prominence with the creation of the president’s Science Advisory Committee in 1957, later renamed the Office of Science and Technology and eventually succeeded by the Office of Science and Technology Policy — the department recently elevated by the Biden administration.
Second, although science and technology had helped win the war and spur a post-war economic boom, this period saw increasing anxiety over the pace and effects of scientific and technological change. Along with a general “social consciousness” of the unintended effects of technology, there were specific fears about technology’s ecological impacts. Other public concerns related to nuclear power, the arms race, and the alliance of technological development and the military, as exacerbated by the Vietnam War. Despite prominent successes, such as the Apollo program, science was seen by a growing chorus of critics no longer as a servant of the public weal but as a handmaiden of the so-called military-industrial complex.
These two consequences of the post-war science-and-technology paradigm — the dominance of the executive branch and what we might call, for lack of a better term, a “techlash” — went hand in glove. The executive branch was seen to be complicit in the dominance of technology, while Congress, which was in theory more responsive to popular pressures, appeared unable to do anything about it.
Advertisement
The OTA was designed to help Congress legislate more effectively in these technical policy areas and to hold accountable the executive-branch agencies charged with science and technology policy-making. What early advocates of technology assessment envisioned was not merely an advisory body that would outfit Congress with more technical information. More than this, the goal was to enable Congress to fulfill its constitutional role as a venue for democratic deliberation — especially given the increasingly complex challenges and opportunities posed by science and technology.
Advertisement
Today, as in the mid 20th century, there is a bipartisan push to secure America’s lead in science and technology in response to foreign competition. And, once again, the executive branch is taking the lead, with Congress doing little more than authorizing funds. At the same time, there are mounting popular concerns about the place of science and technology in our society, whether it is with climate change, the global pandemic, digital disinformation, or Big Tech. And yet our national legislature is less equipped to deal with such issues now than ever before.
The problem is not simply that Congress lacks adequate expert information. The problem is that Congress has forfeited its role as a deliberative and democratically responsive institution within which to grapple with the social, ethical, economic, and political ramifications of modern science and technology. That is unfortunate, since such deliberation is urgently needed now in our age of populist anxiety. This is precisely what technology assessment was originally intended to facilitate — and what a reestablished OTA could help us achieve.
Reviving technology assessment would help Congress fulfill its constitutional role and provide a venue for democratic deliberation about many of the most pressing issues of our time. The White House has signaled that it is serious about science and technology policy. It’s time for Congress to do the same.Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. (diane39/Getty Images)
America and Jews owe each other a great debt. An attack on one is an attack on both.
The renowned British historian Paul Johnson has called anti-Semitism “a disease of the mind.” There seems to be no permanent cure for this disease. It has flared up again, not just in the usual international settings — in the United Nations General Assembly, for example — but much closer to home.
Advertisement
During the first week of the Israel–Hamas conflict, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) received 193 reports of anti-Semitic incidents in the United States. Two weeks ago, Jews were attacked by gangs in New York City and Los Angeles, and synagogues were vandalized in Skokie, Tucson, and Salt Lake City.
Attacks on Jews, however, began long before the most recent clash between Israel and the Islamist terrorist organization of Hamas. In 2019, the ADL recorded more than 2,100 anti-Semitic acts, the highest number in the 40-year history of the organization’s report. The murderous rampages in synagogues in California and Pittsburgh, a shooting at a kosher grocery store in Jersey City, the arson at the Portland Chabad Center for Jewish Life, the stabbing at the rabbi’s home during Chanukah in Monsey, N.Y., and brutal assaults on Hasidic men in Brooklyn — such incidents are no longer a rare occurrence.
Anti-Semitism is more than a hate crime. It represents a unique assault on America’s founding principles of equality and freedom. Despite the manifest violation of these principles from the start of the American experiment — the existence of slavery and the treatment of Native Americans — the United States created a civic culture that would regard Jews as equal citizens. Outside of Israel, America would become the most welcoming home to Jews of any nation in the world.
Advertisement
America’s journey toward religious pluralism stretches back to its early days. When the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam fell to the English in 1664 and became New York, Jews were granted all the rights of English citizenship “so long as they demean themselves peaceably and quietly.” New York governor Edmund Andros made a special effort to include Jews when he guaranteed equal treatment to all law-abiding persons “of what religion soever.” With regard to their civil rights, their Jewish identity was a nonissue; Jews voted in elections and held public office.
The Revolution of 1776 signaled to the world that a nation was coming into existence predicated upon the natural and inalienable rights of mankind — rights that could not be taken away because they were the endowment of a Creator, not the largesse of the state. The Constitution enshrined these rights in a political system of limited, republican government.
Religious freedom, considered the “first freedom” by the American Founders, was the linchpin. America has never had a national church: The government is prohibited from establishing or favoring any religion over another. The First Amendment guarantees religious liberty to people of all faiths, while the Constitution proclaims that “no religious Test shall ever be required” as a qualification for public office. State constitutions ultimately embraced these principles of religious freedom and equal justice.
Advertisement
The result, for Jews and all other minority faiths, was transformative. As nowhere else in the world, Jews were free to worship God according to the demands of their faith and conscience. They were also free to dissent from the religious views of the majority without fear of persecution. We call this American exceptionalism, an approach to political life — a fundamental respect for the spiritual commitments of all its citizens — that gives everyone a stake in the nation’s success.
The warm letters exchanged in 1790 between George Washington and a Jewish congregation in Newport, R.I., bear eloquent testimony to America as a safe harbor for religious pluralism. “May the children of the stock of Abraham who dwell in the land continue to merit and enjoy the goodwill of the other inhabitants,” Washington wrote. “While everyone shall sit safely under his own vine and fig-tree and there shall be none to make him afraid.” The leadership of Jeshuat Israel did not withhold their gratitude: “We now . . . behold a Government which to bigotry gives no sanction, to persecution no assistance — but generously affording to All liberty of conscience, and immunities of citizenship — deeming everyone, of whatever nation, tongue, or language equal parts of the great governmental machine.”
Advertisement
Washington, always conscious of the example he set as the first president of the United States, knew exactly what he was doing. It is hard to think of another major political leader at the time, in any other government in the world, expressing such a hopeful and inclusive message to his nation’s Jewish inhabitants.
Not everyone in America, of course, shared this generous outlook toward the Jews; prejudice persisted, especially during new waves of immigration. Yet, as Alexis de Tocqueville observed during his 1830s tour, the United States established a civil society that was diverse, tolerant, and deeply religious — a combination that rarely appeared in Europe or other parts of the world. “Among us, I had seen the spirit of religion and the spirit of freedom almost always move in contrary directions,” he wrote in Democracy in America. “Here I found them united intimately with on another: they reigned together on the same soil.”
Unlike in Europe, Jews in America never experienced systematic persecution. They had no reason to isolate themselves or create distinct legal systems. They were welcomed as equal citizens of a self-governing republic. “Since all religious groups had virtually equal rights, there was no point in any constituting itself into a separate community,” writes Paul Johnson in A History of the Jews. “All could participate in a common society.” “Thus, for the first time, Jews, without in any way renouncing their religion, began to achieve integration.”
Advertisement
Another reason for America’s warm embrace of the Jewish people must not be overlooked: the influence of the Bible. The earliest Puritan settlers established a “covenant” with one another modeled on the covenantal theology of the Hebrew Bible. Explains Gabriel Sivan in The Bible and Civilization: “No Christian community in history identified more with the People of the Book than did the early settlers of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, who believed their own lives to be a literal reenactment of the Biblical drama of the Hebrew nation.” Likewise, colonial ministers during the Revolution compared the battle for independence with the biblical story of Exodus: how the Jews escaped the slavery of an Egyptian tyrant and found freedom in the Promised Land. The inscription on the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia, of course, is taken from Leviticus 25:10: “Proclaim liberty throughout the land unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
Advertisement
Thanks to the impact of Protestantism, many Americans were intimately familiar with the Bible. Indeed, next to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, the Bible became a third founding document for colonial Americans. According to the late Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, the chief rabbi of Great Britain, the “self-evident” truths of the Declaration — that “all men are created equal and endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights” — were anything but self-evident. “They would have been unintelligible to Plato, to Aristotle, or to every hierarchical society the world has ever known,” he wrote. “They are self-evident only to people, to Jews and Christians, who have internalized the Hebrew Bible.”
American Christians of all denominations recognized in Judaism one of the great gifts to Western civilization: the concept of a moral law given to mankind by a divine Lawgiver. From their very beginnings as a nation — like no one else in the ancient world — the Jewish people sought to order their social, political, and religious life according to these norms. The Ten Commandments supplied the ethical bedrock not only for Judaism but also — quite remarkably — for Western civilization throughout the centuries.
The American Founders were acutely aware of this cultural inheritance and its importance to their new republic. They paid homage to it in countless ways, not least of which was in the physical architecture of their most important political institutions. It is almost impossible, for example, to ignore the carved image of Moses — deliverer of the Ten Commandments to the Jewish people — dominating the frieze atop the U.S. Supreme Court. As James Madison explained: “We have staked the whole of our political institutions upon the capacity of mankind for self-government, upon the capacity of each and all of us to govern ourselves, to control ourselves, to sustain ourselves according to the Ten Commandments of God.”
Advertisement
The unique contributions of the Jewish people to American political and cultural life may help explain the rise in anti-Semitism. Although white nationalism, draped in Christian symbolism, is a problem, the much greater threat comes from the secular Left. Political and cultural antagonism to Jews — in politics, entertainment, and mainstream media — is the product of a thoroughgoing materialism.
What does an increasingly secular and materialistic society have to do with anti-Semitism? If there is a single feature uniting the disparate elements of the Left, it is their rejection of moral truths, rooted in the divine will. The Jews, like no one else, delivered these truths to the world: an example of Jewish exceptionalism. Thus, the Jews stand in the way of the Left’s rage against transcendent truth, against the achievements of the West, against the claims of American exceptionalism.
If this is so, then the answer to anti-Semitism (a partial answer, to be sure) is the reassertion of America’s first principles: the recovery of our historic commitment to the God-given worth and dignity of every human soul.
This was precisely the response of Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War, when he encountered an outburst of anti-Semitism among his generals. General Ulysses S. Grant issued an order to banish Jews “as a class” from his war zone. At Holly Springs, Miss., a Union Army supply depot, Jews were rounded up and forced out of the city on foot. A Jewish delegation, led by Cesar Kaskel, arrived at the White House to contest the order.
Lincoln: And, so, the children of Israel were driven from the happy land of Canaan?
Kaskel: Yes, and that is why we have come unto Father Abraham’s bosom, seeking protection.
Lincoln: And this protection they shall have at once.
Lincoln immediately countermanded Grant’s order. (Grant would regret the order and overcome his prejudice.) This is what America’s great leaders do in the face of prejudice and injustice: They return to first principles, to the ideals of justice and equality embedded in the Declaration and the Constitution. If there is a remedy to the disease of anti-Semitism, it begins here.From left: Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry, Jennifer Aniston, Courtney Cox, and Lisa Kudrow on Friends: The Reunion. (HBO Max/via YouTube)
A reunion special doesn’t do justice to the importance of the smash Nineties sitcom.
The Friends reunion special not only brought me back to the Nineties, but even farther back, to the Seventies, when I used to watch The Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon and wonder both how the producers could possibly come up with enough filler to kill the time allotted and also whether Jerry would collapse before our eyes. For Jerry Lewis, sub in Matthew Perry, who these days looks rather . . . unwell.
Advertisement
The sitcom’s cast members were invited to get together after HBO Max, bringing home a show produced by its corporate sibling Warner Bros. after streaming for five years on Netflix, decided it needed some splashy original content to get the message out. The six lead actors, who on only one previous occasion had been in the same room together since Friends wrapped in 2004, were paid $2 million to $4 million each, according to the trades, for what appears to be a day or two of extremely light work filming the reunion.
That gathering yielded almost enough winning material to make for a solidly entertaining half-hour, but in this Weimar Era of inflationary entertainment, this was blown up into a 104-minute special fluffed up with celebrity testimonials, interviews with random fans around the world, lame skits (Lady Gaga singing a duet of “Smelly Cat” with Lisa Kudrow), a moronic mini-game show hosted by David Schwimmer, lots of vapid “I love you guys” small talk, clips from past shows whose dialogue gets reread by the actors sitting around a table in 2021, and a fashion show in which runway models from the Nineties strut around in reproductions of some of the silliest costumes from the sitcom. Two of the show’s creators, Marta Kauffman and David Crane, share a few interesting tidbits from the days when they were casting (at which point Jennifer Aniston was committed to a CBS show called Muddling Through that mercifully failed and Perry was signed to a show about baggage handlers of the future called L.A.X. 2194 whose pilot never even aired). But as is typical of high-ranking show people, Crane and Kauffman are evidently petrified of getting on anyone’s bad side, so they don’t share any new gossip or mention the names of any of the people they rejected or tangled with. The one interlude in the reunion that is aimed at firing up the publicity machine is awkward and seems fake: a discussion of a supposed mutual crush between Aniston and Schwimmer in the season’s first year. Apparently the attraction wasn’t strong enough for them to actually kiss, though, except on the show. (Both were dating others.)
Advertisement
Still, it’s sweet to watch the six actors turn up, one by one, at a soundstage on the Warner Bros. lot, where HBO Max had the original sets rebuilt (they were torn down immediately after the final episode because another pilot was coming in to be filmed there the next day). There are a few minutes of mildly amusing bloopers and outtakes such as more footage from the frolicking-around-the-fountain opening credits sequence, and there’s a scene where we’re treated to the sight of Matt LeBlanc dislocating a shoulder while diving onto a couch. Filming had to be stopped, and while LeBlanc was getting his arm put in a sling, the writers hastily devised an alternate storyline in which his man-child character got hurt offscreen, jumping on a bed.
Advertisement
For the most part Friends: The Reunion will serve only to make Friends fans sad. The cast itself seems far less interested in the show than its eager viewers; two of the actors say that for long stretches of its ten-year run they never watched it, Schwimmer says he didn’t watch it for many years after the last episode was filmed until his daughter expressed interest in it, and Perry has said there are entire seasons of the show he no longer remembers due to alcohol abuse.
Because there is no one assigned to ask probing questions, no one mentions that the cast famously formed the world’s smallest union in 2002 to win themselves a uniform wage of $1 million each per week, nor much discusses the actors’ world-famous love affairs (Aniston dated Brad Pitt, Perry Julia Roberts), nor addresses the addiction that plagued Perry. There is very little reflection about the alienation and disruption that comes with sudden fame and lucre, except at the shallowest imaginable level: LeBlanc says he once saw a live helicopter shot of his house on TV, which made him realize he needed to get his roof fixed. No one even mentions that the show was originally developed as “the Courteney Cox project,” she being the only cast member anyone had then heard of.
There is only one genuinely interesting revelation in the entire two-hour extravaganza, and it comes from Perry, by far the most troubled of the sextet. He got the biggest initial boost from the show, and from 1997 to 2000 landed the lead or co-lead role in four major studio pictures, but from at least 1997 he was beset by addictions; he once confessed to drinking a quart of vodka a day. None of this gets mentioned, but he suggests a basis for his self-scourging persona when he says that every time the cast filmed the show he thought he’d die if he didn’t get a laugh. If a joke didn’t go over, he says he’d sweat and have convulsions, right there in front of the studio audience. His discomfort registers even now. The contrast between the hesitant, misshapen, and mole-like Perry of 2021 and his famously lithe and snappy character Chandler Bing is the most heartbreaking element of the special.
Advertisement
Or perhaps the mere fact of time is equally sad. Can it really be 27 years since we first met Rachel, Ross, Chandler, Joey, Monica and Phoebe? Or 17 years since the final episode? I was in roughly the same situation as the Central Perk Six — Schwimmer is my exact contemporary — and though I watched the show only occasionally and never considered it especially interesting, I was one of the 3,000 or so viewers who gathered to watch the finale on Pier 25, overlooking the Hudson River in Manhattan. This was a moment to be shared.
Friends wasn’t the most inventive sitcom, but for Gen X there is no doubt that it was our sitcom, and in its playful geniality it was emblematic of the Nineties. Its continuing popularity among succeeding generations, though, suggests that it has an aspirational appeal: It’s an idealization of the only stage in life when everyone around you is your age and on the same page. Parents have been left behind, and kids have not yet arrived, so young adults are free to focus entirely on themselves — their own jokes, their own goals, their own neuroses and obsessions and romances. Looking around, everyone else is flailing in the same rocky boat, and that does build a spirit of connection. As the last generation to grow up before the Internet, Gen X might be the last one in which those bonds were entirely a matter of shared real life, in the same physical space. The show’s creators famously described its subject as “that time in your life when your friends are your family.” Friends didn’t have to be the best sitcom, because it captured the best time of life.Rochelle Walensky, Director of the CDC, testifies before a Senate committee hearing at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., May 11, 2021. (Jim Lo Scalzo/Reuters)
The COVID era shows we don’t always know what facts are right. Let’s not suppress reasonable dissents from what happens to be the consensus at any given time.
Recent guidance from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) — stating that fully vaccinated people can resume most of their pre-pandemic activities without masks or distancing — took many by surprise. I attended an outdoor event shortly thereafter. The event organizer’s rules called for masks and distancing — but I saw another attendee, empowered by the CDC guidelines, arguing that she didn’t have to wear a mask because she was vaccinated. Perhaps anticipating similar problems with enforcement, states and businesses began to roll back mask mandates.
Advertisement
Some experts and concerned citizens have pushed back against the new guidelines, arguing that the CDC’s shift was premature and risky, particularly considering high levels of vaccine hesitancy and the fact that, in public settings, there’s no reliable way to tell who is or isn’t vaccinated. They have drawn attention to the plight of those with compromised immune systems, who can’t protect themselves with vaccines and rely on others to keep them safe. They have drawn attention to the fact that children are not yet eligible for vaccination.
All in all, there has been a robust and open public discussion about how to move forward now that infection rates are down, vaccines are readily available, and more than 50 percent of the adult population has received at least one shot.
Advertisement
Earlier in the pandemic, another group of experts and concerned citizens disputed the recommendations of public-health authorities such as the CDC. These dissenters — who included experts at top universities — questioned the benefits of population-wide restrictions to curb the spread of COVID-19. They drew attention to the plight of those suffering mental-health effects from isolation. They drew attention to the fact that business owners, kids from low-income families, and people with substance-use disorders were struggling under the restrictions.
Yet these dissenters faced a much different reception. They were accused of being “anti-science” and spreading “misinformation.” Scientists who questioned the dominant narrative complained about hostility and censure from colleagues. Their motives were questioned. Even legitimate public-health experts faced censorship on social media. Many public voices mocked the weakest arguments of the skeptics (COVID-19 is a hoax) rather than honestly engaging with their strongest (COVID-19 restrictions have real, significant costs).
To take one example, YouTube recently removed a video in which a panel of experts — with relevant knowledge and academic appointments at Harvard, Stanford, and Oxford — expressed the opinion that children should not wear masks in schools. YouTube’s official policy states that its censors remove “content that disputes the efficacy of local health authorities’ or WHO’s guidance on physical distancing or self-isolation measures to reduce transmission of COVID-19.”
Does this mean YouTube will now remove videos in which experts criticize the CDC’s new guidelines? Or do the rules only apply to those advocating a loosening of restrictions, rather than a tightening?
One need not take a stand on the new CDC guidelines, lockdowns, or any other COVID-19 policy to be disturbed by this contrast. Disagreeing with a government agency shouldn’t get someone labeled as “anti-science” or accused of spreading “misinformation.” When the CDC recommends reopening schools, not traveling for Thanksgiving, or dispensing with masks and distancing for vaccinated people, they are implicitly weighing the benefits of these activities against the risks. Reasonable people (and the elected officials who represent them) can disagree on how to value these benefits and risks.
Advertisement
I’m an economist, not a public-health expert. But my experience as a scholar has taught me the value of intellectual diversity. I’m a mainstream economist — someone who is often in agreement with the professional consensus when one exists. However, I would not want YouTube, Facebook, or Twitter to censor economists who hold nonmainstream viewpoints — such as Marxists or Austrians — on the grounds that they are out of line with the profession’s consensus, as expressed by the Federal Reserve or the Council of Economic Advisers. I would not want those who espouse modern monetary theory to be shut down on social media or vilified in the public debate — even if most economists disagree with them, and even if their views have been “debunked” by prominent economists. While most economists hold a positive view of international trade, I would not want those who draw attention to the plight of workers displaced by trade to be disparaged as “anti-science.”
Diverse perspectives and healthy, respectful debate are essential to furthering our knowledge. And no institution — whether a government agency or a large corporation — should act as the arbiter of truth.(WendellandCarolyn/Getty Images)
The Pennsylvania thoroughfare oddity does not deserve its bad reputation.
Breezewood, Pa. — There was a period when I drove through here at least once a month. I lived in Michigan, a dilettante sort-of student at Hillsdale College, frequently cutting class to see friends just eight hours down the road in Washington, D.C. On these trips, Breezewood was a choke point through which I, along with most Midwestern traffic bound for the mid-Atlantic, had to pass.
Advertisement
The reverse was also true, of course. And still is. Every year, about 3.5 million cars and an additional 1.5 million trucks thread through this half-mile, glorified truck stop on their way down to Maryland or out to Ohio. The strip is bogged down by stoplights and turn lanes. It’s lined with motels, gas stations, and fast-food joints. Traffic jams sometimes stretch on behind it for miles.
There’s no way around it all if you’re coming from the east. Breezewood is the only connection from I-70 West to the Pennsylvania Turnpike. Unless you’d rather take a roundabout, Updikean joyride over the Alleghenies, it’s the best path through south-central Pennsylvania.
The inconvenience is by design. When a federal project extended I-70 through Pennsylvania in the 1960s, state officials proposed linking the interstate with the turnpike, which had been open since 1940. But an arcane federal regulation prevented a direct connection. At the time, the federal government required that the state, to obtain funding for a connection, give drivers an option to exit to a free road. Otherwise, the state could join the two highways, but could not continue to collect tolls on the federally funded portion of the turnpike after the bonds issued for its construction had been retired.
Advertisement
The Pennsylvania Turnpike had no intention ever to stop collecting tolls, and in 1966 the corporation’s director of operations rejected proposals for a direct connection. Businesses of all stripes filled in the strip over the next few years. And so was born Breezewood, accidentally a federally manufactured tourist trap.
As federal highway regulations relaxed in the following decades, some Pennsylvania lawmakers asked the state to build a road bypassing the Breezewood circus. Never with any success. There are two reasons for this. The first is that for such a proposal to be taken seriously, it must originate locally — an unlikely event. The second reason is existential. Breezewood is one of post-industrial Bedford County’s top jobs centers. Good luck getting a community to commit suicide for a few minutes of travel convenience.
And yet there are still a significant number of people who would like to see Breezewood erased. Most don’t even know the place’s name, but they do seem to know all about this photo, which goes viral every few months. It was taken in 2008 by the Canadian photographer Edward Burtynsky, and its meaning is remarkably pluripotent. He intended it as a comment on American oil distribution. But I have seen it recycled maybe ten times for other purposes.
Sometimes, socialists present it as proof of the evils of consumerism. Traditionalists use it in diatribes against modernism. Modernists lean on it in arguments against futurism. Americanists dish it out to condemn globalism. Globalists dish it right back to knock Americanism. The list goes on. Name an –ism, and Breezewood is likely the prime example of everything wrong with it.
Advertisement
Of course, as I’m driving through Breezewood today (I began this column at a traffic light), it’s hard to see what makes people so angry about the place. From the ground, it looks like any other truck stop, perhaps with a few more neon signs. This was Burtynsky’s experience as well. When he visited, he spent three days looking for the most shocking way to photograph the area. Eventually, he took a scissor lift up a hill and shot the picture with a slightly long lens, which compressed the gas and fast-food signs so that they seemed piled on top of each other. The result is dramatic, but it’s a hyperreal version of Breezewood.
The real Breezewood is not that much different from the hundreds of other towns, villages, and unincorporated areas not located near major cities. A lot of these places have been in decline for decades, and have been forced to embrace various affectations to stay afloat. For some, that means opening state-supported breweries and coffee shops. For others, it means rebranding their hollowed-out downtowns as arts districts. Anyway, most fail.
Advertisement
Breezewood at least has the good fortune to be wedged between two major highways. And who knows? Maybe that bizarre photo is drawing in more visitors. If it’s helping the place out, awesome. Keep on truckin’.(Pixabay)
Have we been too successful at insulating ourselves from harm, and from one another?
The purpose of government is to make it safe for human beings to deal with strangers. We don’t need the state to regulate our interactions with people we know and trust, but the same cannot be said about our interactions with those outside our circle of acquaintance. Knowing my family and my friends as well as I do, I can be confident that they would not try to hurt me, steal from me, or do me any kind of harm. I can also be confident that if any among them were to do me harm, my grievance would get a fair hearing among the others in my circle. But none of this obtains when I step out of my circle of acquaintances and into the broader world. Walking in the middle of a city or along a sidewalk, I have no idea whether the strangers I see are saints or sinners. I do not know if they harbor good or ill intentions toward me, or if they harbor any at all.
Advertisement
In order to make this perilous situation of mutual estrangement palatable, governments are instituted among men. At least in their classically liberal form, governments make the same conditional threats of violence against everyone in society, which allows all of us to relax in the presence of strangers. Knowing that the penalty for theft is unpleasant, we content ourselves with the fact that the strangers walking past us as we carry our shopping bags are unlikely to risk incurring this penalty. Undoubtedly, we also factor in a baseline expectation of goodwill from strangers as well in civilized countries, but few would be willing to trust their safety to such goodwill alone absent the rule of law. Ultimately, there is a set of rules by which all are expected to conduct themselves, and failure so to do results in punitive consequences. Governments allow us to trust our safety to the self-interest of strangers, whereas anarchy puts us at the mercy of their goodwill.
Markets — which are, after all, creations of governments — take this process one step further. Whereas basic laws of self-preservation (against murder, theft, etc.) make it safe to deal with strangers, markets actually allow strangers to look after one another. The price system allows us to freely exchange goods with those who are not our immediate friends or acquaintances. In today’s globalized economy, even the most basic household items are often the product of a dizzying amount of cooperation that habitually crisscrosses entire continents several times over. To buy a book from Amazon you don’t have to meet and make friends with the author, the editor, the printer, the publisher, Jeff Bezos, or the mailman. All can remain strangers to you while at the same time providing you with the good or service you’re after.
Governments and markets, then, are two steps in a process of managing the idea of the stranger in society. Government neutralizes the threat of strangers, and markets allow strangers to care for one another’s material needs. But is it possible for this dual process to be too successful? We in the West appear to be reaching a stage in our economic development at which it is not only safe to deal with strangers, and profitable to deal with strangers, but also sufficient to deal with strangers. We have fewer and fewer needs that compel us to associate and cooperate with one another face-to-face in order to meet them. The welfare state and technological capitalism are both designed to make the individual less and less dependent upon the people around him who know him personally, and more and more dependent upon abstract and faceless entities to whom he is an equally faceless customer or recipient. As I wrote earlier this month in a different context:
The Democratic Party appears increasingly to want the federal government, the faceless benefactor of the redistributive state, to meet all of our individual material needs. The starkest example of this Democratic impulse was Barack Obama’s infamous Life of Julia — the government as spouse, provider, babysitter, and guardian for every citizen. No need to look to your neighbor for anything. Meanwhile, the technological capitalism championed by the Right is becoming increasingly adept at meeting all of our material needs more efficiently than any government program. The faceless benefactor of big business supplies us with everything we need. No need to look to your neighbor for anything.
In short, the shared, bipartisan aim of our political economy appears to be the increasing estrangement of each from all.
All of this is especially salient in light of Lyman Stone’s recent report on the replacement of American community life, which was released at the end of last month by the American Enterprise Institute. As one might expect, Stone finds that “Americans are spending less and less time together. This decline is most severe among younger Americans. Time spent with friends among people under age 30 is down almost 40 percent since 2005, but only down about 15 percent among those over age 60.” The two major culprits he singles out, technological innovation and the welfare state, accord well with the analysis I offered above of two rival economic strategies — the business innovation championed by the Right and the welfarism championed by the Left — both tending toward a social climate of heightened estrangement and anomie:
Most of the change in associational life can be attributed to essentially one factor: technological improvements leading to a higher standard of living. A wealthier society provides more benefits via the state instead of private organizations, even as the invention of radio and television displaced many traditional information networks.
A lot of the problems that compelled human beings to associate with one another in the past have been solved instead either by commercially available commodities or by improved public services. As Yuval Levin has often pointed out during the course of his work on institutions, people do not form associations simply for the sake of it; they form associations in order to do something — to accomplish some task or another. Much of the work that associations carried out in the past is simply carried out by other organs today. As Stone points out, many of the fraternal societies that were so common in America during the late 19th and early 20th centuries functioned as little more than news centers where members could learn from others about the events and gossip of the day. The advent of 24-hour news networks and social media has made this function redundant.
As a result of the aforementioned technological advances and welfare expansion, Americans are now filling their time with one pursuit above all others — sports. Whether as spectators or participants, Americans are organizing their lives increasingly around sports as other forms of association fall by the wayside.
Despite a widespread intuition to the contrary, sports appear to do little, if anything, to improve or preserve the social fabric of society. As Stone writes:
In 1987, the GSS [General Social Survey] asked members of 15 different kinds of groups if that group “tries to solve individual or community problems.” For fraternal groups, 84 percent of members said yes. For professional societies, 69 percent. For labor unions, 66 percent. Only 36 percent of members of sports clubs said their clubs tried to do anything to solve individual or community problems, the lowest response of any group category besides “hobby clubs.” This is striking, because there is a mythology of sports as a problem-solving activity. Movies about people overcoming life hurdles or community problems through sports are a staple of American entertainment. And yet when push comes to shove, sports club members acknowledge that their associations don’t actually do very much. As much as the defenders of “sports as social capital” might want to argue that sports have large beneficial effects, most people who play sports basically just like to play sports and don’t look to receive any greater benefit.
Fascinatingly, Stone also notes the link between sports and the welfare state:
Academic research explicitly links sports participation and the interventionist role of the state. Research on Danish sports clubs specifically identifies such clubs as part of the welfare state. A study of Canadian sports culture outlined the “broad impact” of the welfare state on sports culture and highlighted various direct interventions by the Canadian government to support and promote sports. A study of six Western European countries outlines the specific links between the welfare state and the sporting system in each country. Modern governments actively promote sports, not only for nationalistic reasons but also as benign, politically nonthreatening entertainments to accompany the welfare state.
Clearly, as the need to focus time and attention on practical problem-solving is alleviated by political and economic progress, people turn to sports as a low-stakes substitute with which to fill their time. Indeed, this was one of Alexis de Tocqueville’s many criticisms of the indolent slavers of the Old South. Tocqueville described the plantation owners of Kentucky like so:
He covets wealth much less than pleasure and excitement; and the energy which his neighbor devotes to gain, turns with him to a passionate love of field sports and military exercises; he delights in violent bodily exertion, he is familiar with the use of arms, and is accustomed from a very early age to expose his life in single combat.
Tocqueville, that great champion of association, clearly took a dim view of sports, something Stone himself notes in his report. But why is it that sports, now our primary national pastime, appear to generate a negligible amount of social capital, and to contribute nothing to the solution of the stranger problem outlined above?
The answer is that sports function far too much like government to be socially constructive. As we observed at the outset, government functions by setting rules for people to follow that have punitive penalties if violated. This means that dealing with people politically, legally, or economically means negotiating these rules successfully. Sports is very similar. Even in team sports, success is defined as negotiating a set of impersonal rules to one’s own benefit. One doesn’t need to like one’s teammates or even know them that well in order to succeed, provided that everyone knows the rules and agrees to abide by them. The same is true in politics and in the marketplace. Impersonal rules and regulations are what allow us to deal with one another without knowing one another. Once the proliferation of these rules in society reaches a certain saturation point, one doesn’t really have to have any personal communion with other human beings in order to make it through the day.
This problem is exacerbated by the increasing amount of time that children are spending in public schools. Public schools are infested with overregulated behavioral codes that prevent children from learning to problem-solve with their peers without appealing to authority. School is yet another arena in which we are in the process of replacing relationships with rules, guaranteeing every child his or her right to regulated isolation.
Ultimately, the phenomenon is the same in the realms of politics, economics, culture, and education. Whether consciously or not, we are engaged as a civilization in the mass erasure of the tacit dimension of life: the aspects of work and relationship that are unquantifiable and indeterminate because they rely on a real communion of souls for their realization. This face-to-face participation of each life in another has been the cost of our successful disarmament of the threat posed by strangers in society. The problem we face now is in many ways far more difficult than the stranger problem, because by definition there can be no abstract or systematic solution to loneliness in a free society. Only freely chosen, concrete, self-sacrificial relationships can roll back the tide of mutual anonymity in our society. It’s just unclear as to whether we see the sacrifice involved in friendship as worthwhile when Jeff Bezos and Joe Biden can keep us fed and amused at a much cheaper cost.Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during a hearing in Washington, D.C., June 30, 2020. (Al Drago/Reuters)
In a newly resurfaced paper from 2012, Dr. Anthony Fauci argued that the benefits of gain-of-function research are worth the increased risk of a potential pandemic-causing lab accident.
The Weekend Australian unearthed a paper Fauci wrote for the American Society for Microbiology in October 2012 in which he argued in support of gain-of-function research. Such research involves making viruses more infectious and/or deadly. Experts have raised the possibility that the COVID-19 pandemic could have originated from a potential lab leak at the Wuhan Institute of Virology in Wuhan, China, where gain-of-function experiments on bat coronaviruses have been conducted.
Despite the risks involved, Fauci called gain-of-function experiments “important work” in his 2012 writing:
In an unlikely but conceivable turn of events, what if that scientist becomes infected with the virus, which leads to an outbreak and ultimately triggers a pandemic? Many ask reasonable questions: given the possibility of such a scenario – however remote – should the initial experiments have been performed and/or published in the first place, and what were the processes involved in this decision? Scientists working in this field might say – as indeed I have said – that the benefits of such experiments and the resulting knowledge outweigh the risks. It is more likely that a pandemic would occur in nature, and the need to stay ahead of such a threat is a primary reason for performing an experiment that might appear to be risky. Within the research community, many have expressed concern that important research progress could come to a halt just because of the fear that someone, somewhere, might attempt to replicate these experiments sloppily. This is a valid concern.
The Weekend Australian report adds that Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, did not alert senior White House officials before lifting a ban on gain-of-function research in 2017.
Advertisement
In 2014, the Obama administration paused funding for gain-of-function experiments in 22 fields, including those involving SARS, influenza and MERS because of the increased risk such experimentation carries of causing a pandemic. In 2012, when Fauci authored the paper supporting gain-of-function research, there was a voluntary ban on such experiments related to highly infectious influenza viruses.
Yet the EcoHealth Alliance diverted $600,000 in grants from the NIH to the WIV in the form of sub-grants from 2014 through 2019, for the purpose of studying bat coronaviruses.
The U.S. government has reportedly assessed that the WIV was conducting gain-of-function research in some form, according to a March Politico excerpt of Washington Post columnist Josh Rogin’s book on the subject. Jamie Metzl, an expert on gene editing for the World Health Organization, has also said that the WIV performed gain-of-function research.
Fauci maintains that no U.S. funding that went to the WIV was directed toward gain-of-function research, but he conceded during congressional testimony this week that it is impossible to guarantee that researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology did not use American funds to perform gain-of-function research on coronaviruses.
Fauci wrote in 2012 that virologists needed to respect “that there are genuine and legitimate concerns about this type of research, both domestically and globally.”
Advertisement
Meanwhile, President Biden on Wednesday said that as U.S. intelligence officials have “coalesced around two likely scenarios” for how COVID-19 originated, he has tasked the intelligence community with redoubling their investigative efforts to bring the U.S. closer to a “definitive conclusion” within 90 days.
He said he had his national security advisor direct the intelligence community to prepare a report on their most up-to-date analysis of the origins of COVID-19 in March, “including whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident.”
Send a tip to the news team at NR.A bat ecologist detangles a bat caught on a net set up in front of a building with a bat roost at the University of the Philippines Los Banos (UPLB), in Los Banos, Philippines, February 19, 2021. (Eloisa Lopez/Reuters )
Memorial Day weekend is almost here — but before then, it’s “back to the lab again.” Chinese scientists’ efforts to find a bat infected with SARS-CoV-2 have been extensive . . . and fruitless. Apparently, the U.S. intelligence community has a whole lot of data relating to Wuhan that has yet to be analyzed. And finally, it’s fascinatingly difficult to nail down just when this pandemic started.
The Extensive, Fruitless Chinese Search for an Infected Bat
SARS-CoV-2 may be a naturally occurring virus. Genetically similar, but not quite identical, viruses have been found in horseshoe bats in Yunnan Province, China. Genetically identical viruses may be in bats in Yunnan Province or somewhere else, and researchers just haven’t found them yet.
Advertisement
Or SARS-CoV-2 may be a version of a naturally occurring virus that mutated while it was being researched at the Wuhan Institute of Virology or some other institution. Or it may be a virus that was altered through gain-of-function research in some lab.
If SARS-CoV-2 is a changed version of what is naturally found in horseshoe bats in Yunnan Province, it might explain why this particular virus has not yet been found in the wild. And until I ran across this article in MIT Technology Review, I hadn’t realized just how far-reaching and extensive the search for the host species in China has been. Liang Wannian, the Chinese head of the joint Chinese–WHO effort, is quoted as saying that Chinese authorities “tested 50,000 animal specimens, including 1,100 bats in Hubei province, where Wuhan is located. But no luck: a matching virus still hasn’t been found.”
Some may wonder whether an assessment performed by scientists, researchers, investigators, and health officials who answer to the Chinese government is trustworthy. But at least in this particular situation, the Chinese government’s inability to find the virus amounts to an admission against interest. If researchers found the virus in a bat out in nature somewhere, the case for the lab-leak theory would be seriously undermined — the bat out in nature could have spread the virus to people.
A persistent inability to find animals with the virus is not the way things progressed during the first SARS outbreak:
With SARS, researchers tested caged market animals and quickly found a nearly identical virus in Himalayan palm civet cats and raccoon dogs, which are also eaten locally. This time, though, the intermediate-host hypothesis has one big problem. More than a year after covid-19 began, no food animal has been identified as a reservoir for the pandemic virus. That’s despite efforts by China to test tens of thousands of animals, including pigs, goats, and geese, according to Liang Wannian, who leads the Chinese side of the research team. No one has found a “direct progenitor” of the virus, he says, and therefore the pandemic “remains an unsolved mystery.”
The search for any cases outside of Wuhan before the outbreak became big news seems similarly exhaustive:
A first step was to double-check that the outbreak really did start in Wuhan, not elsewhere. China undertook a fairly vast effort to see if COVID-19 could have been spreading, unseen, any earlier than December 2019. Chinese researchers checked records of more than 200 hospitals around the country for suspicious pneumonias, tracked how much cough syrup pharmacies had sold, and tested 4,500 biospecimens stored before the outbreak, including blood samples that could be screened for antibodies. The WHO team says it even interviewed the office worker who, on December 8, 2019, became the first recognized covid-19 case in China. So far, there is no evidence the outbreak went undetected elsewhere before the Wuhan cases. Genetic evidence also narrows the chance that the virus was spreading much earlier. Because of how the germ has accumulated mutations with time, it’s possible to estimate when it first started spreading between people. That data, too, points to a start date of late 2019.
It is . . . odd that the world hasn’t been able to find SARS-CoV-2 in an animal species yet. As the U.K. Bat Conservation Trust summarized:
The COVID-19 virus hasn’t been isolated from any of the world’s 1400+ species of bat. A coronavirus with 96 percent of its genome in common with SARS-CoV-2 has been found in a single species of bat (Rhinolophus affinis) in China. This may sound significant, but to put it in context, we share 96 percent of our genome with chimpanzees, but we are not the same species. It is important to stress that in this pandemic it is humans that transmit COVID-19 to other humans, not bats.
Scientists don’t yet know precisely what the “minimum infectious dose” is for COVID-19, but they think it’s around 100 virus particles, maybe 1,000. This virus spreads like wildfire among human beings, so why can’t we find it in any bats? If it’s a pangolin virus, why can’t we find it in any pangolins?
Unfortunately, that MIT Technology article also includes the sentence, “One problem with the lab leak theory is that it presumes the Chinese are lying or hiding facts, a position incompatible with a joint scientific effort.” Peter Daszak, president of the EcoHealth Alliance, is cited as an authority declaring Chinese-government dishonesty as an unthinkable scenario. As our Jimmy Quinn, among others, reported, “as president of the research nonprofit EcoHealth Alliance, Daszak partnered with the WIV in 2014 to study bat coronaviruses and, over the course of the next five years, provided $598,000 in NIH funding to the Chinese lab to support that research.”
Wait, We’re Only Now Looking at Databases of Chinese Communications?
Is the problem that our intelligence community collects way more data than it can ever sort through and analyze in a timely fashion? Because that’s the undertone from the big New York Times scoop of Thursday night:
President Biden’s call for a 90-day sprint to understand the origins of the coronavirus pandemic came after intelligence officials told the White House they had a raft of still-unexamined evidence that required additional computer analysis that might shed light on the mystery, according to senior administration officials. The officials declined to describe the new evidence. But the revelation that they are hoping to apply an extraordinary amount of computer power to the question of whether the virus accidentally leaked from a Chinese laboratory suggests that the government may not have exhausted its databases of Chinese communications, the movement of lab workers and the pattern of the outbreak of the disease around the city of Wuhan.
“Databases of Chinese communications, the movement of lab workers and the pattern of the outbreak of the disease around the city of Wuhan”? Doesn’t that sound like the kind of stuff that would be first in line to get studied and analyzed? Please tell me that the answer to the origin of this pandemic hasn’t been sitting in some database for the past 18 months, waiting for somebody to look at it or listen to it.
The Difficulty of Nailing Down Exactly When the Pandemic Started
Yesterday’s extensive layout of the evidence pointing in the direction of a lab leak noted that in May 2020, NBC News reported that, “Private analysis of cellphone location data purports to show that a high-security Wuhan laboratory studying coronaviruses shut down in October, three sources briefed on the matter told NBC News.” I wrote that “since that report, there has been no subsequent elaboration, no further details, no ensuing leaks of new information of what, if anything, happened in that laboratory building in that autumn.”
University of Colorado environmental-studies professor Roger Pielke Jr. was kind enough to share the private-sector analysis that NBC News was referring to, and you can see it here. Back in May 2020, the Daily Beast wrote an article pooh-poohing the conclusions of the private analysis. They contend the analysis’s assessment of cell-phone activity in and near the lab is only using location data for seven phones — too small a sample to be useful, and that the sudden absence of certain phones can be explained by holidays, vacations, or users losing phones. They contend that the analysis’s description of roads being blocked off near the Wuhan Institute of Virology aligns with construction projects in the area. Perhaps most glaringly, the analysis contended that a November conference on biosafety lab management at the Wuhan lab scheduled for the first week of November was canceled. But the investigator hired by the Daily Beast found a Facebook post from a Pakistani scientist who had attended the event and taken selfies there, including at the BSL-3 laboratory. In the absence of further evidence, that analysis of cell-phone-location data probably should be put aside.
The thing that stuck out to me is that the analysis suggested some sort of incident occurred in the Wuhan Institute of Virology on October 6, 2019. That seems a little early, based upon what else we know about the timeline of the pandemic. One of the first comprehensive studies of the first COVID-19 patients concluded that the “symptom onset date of the first patient identified was December 1, 2019,” and the hospitals in Wuhan really started seeing waves of patients in mid to late December. Could a virus as contagious and virulent as this one really have floated around the city of Wuhan from October 6-ish into December before anyone felt the need to go to a hospital?
Then again, maybe October 6 isn’t that early. Last month, a study by researchers at University of California San Diego School of Medicine, with colleagues at the University of Arizona and Illumina ran “epidemiological simulations to determine how long SARS-CoV-2 could have circulated before the time of the most recent common ancestor of all sequenced SARS-CoV-2 genomes. Our results define the period between mid-October and mid-November 2019 as the plausible interval when the first case of SARS-CoV-2 emerged in Hubei province, China.”
Three other claims of events in the Wuhan area in November 2019, all brought to you with a heavy dose of “for what it’s worth”:
The South China Morning Post cited Chinese-government data declaring the first person who presented similar cases was a 55-year-old male patient from the province of Hubei on November 17.
In March 2020, George Gao, director-general of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said in an interview that, “There is no solid evidence to say we already had clusters in November.”
The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that a U.S. intelligence-community report determined that three researchers from China’s Wuhan Institute of Virology became sick enough to require hospitalization in November 2019.
ADDENDA: Dan McLaughlin is right: We need public testimony, under oath, about what can be determined about this pandemic’s origins. And any day I can make Dana Perino’s day is a good one.Emma Stone in Cruella. (Walt Disney/Trailer image via YouTube)
The corporation’s revised morality is anti-style and anti-human.
Near the end of Cruella, after lots of jumbled, meant-to-be-amusing folderol, Emma Stone in the title role pulls the loose plot strands together in a brief but striking monologue addressed to a dead mentor:
So this is a confusing day. My nemesis is my real mother. And she killed my other mother. I guess you were always scared, weren’t you, that I’d be a psycho like my real mother, huh? “Love me into shape,” I suppose, was the plan. But the thing is, I’m not sweet Estella, try as I might. I never was. I’m Cruella! Born brilliant, born bad and a little bit mad.
This confession of moral ambivalence saves the actress from her usual unlikable strident attitude. Confused between anger and self-pity, she taps into something palpable. It is the best performance of her career. Then the movie goes back to the mess of unresolved ideas typical of how the Disney corporation rehashes past hits: This time the 1961 animated feature One Hundred and One Dalmatians is rebooted into a live-action hybrid, imitating Harry Potter and Oliver Twist in hopes of capturing the family-movie audience.
But that marketing concept doesn’t distract from Hollywood’s deleterious intention; Stone and her filmmaker cohorts can barely disguise it. Cruella showcases Hollywood’s current psychopathology. It gives the 1961 cartoon villain a backstory by rummaging through bits of pop-culture history to mark women’s-movement and fashion-industry advances. “I want to be a fashion designer, not a thief,” teenage Estella tells her ragamuffin, pickpocket pals Horace (the great Paul Walter Hauser, unforgettable in Clint Eastwood’s Richard Jewell) and Jasper (Joel Fry). Her subversive nature is intended to show independent will.
Director Craig Gillespie and a team of faux-feminist screenwriters that include Tony McNamara (The Favourite) and Aline Brosh McKenna (The Devil Wears Prada) present Estella and her alter ego Cruella de Vil as a standard-bearer. They use the unwanted infant freak with two-toned hair — her white/black cartoon motif illustrates good/bad caricature — and trivialize the schizophrenia that Prince relayed so wittily and dangerously as The Joker in his Batdance music video, from 1989. Cruella ransacks pop-culture rebellion from Sixties Carnaby Street to Seventies punk (minus political resonance) as Estella vies with an aging couturier, The Baroness (Emma Thompson). This careless, anachronistic mash-up misrepresents the sexual revolution and eventually becomes #MeToo retribution. “Must dash,” Cruella concludes her monologue. “Much to avenge, revenge, and destroy!”
Advertisement
The perverse reinvention seen in Cruella recalls pundit Tammy Bruce’s insight on #MeToo panic: “The feminist movement is having a nervous breakdown.” This disorder is not just a Hillary Clinton–driven post-2016-election freakout but part of the cultural shift that takes a villain and tries to partially rehabilitate if not totally justify the character. Disney’s moral revisionism follows Broadway’s Wicked, a modification of The Wizard of Oz that rationalizes Elphaba, the Wicked Witch of the West, as queer. And just as the Harry Potter franchise justifies occultism as an alternative to Christianity, Disney similarly celebrated Angelina Jolie’s Sleeping Beauty villainess Maleficent (in two films so far). To wit: Cruella instructs Millennials that their own psychosis is excusable, admirable, and fun.
“It wasn’t her I was challenging, it was the world,” young Estella first admits. Later, The Baroness clarifies, “You’re here because you’re a brilliant designer and a wicked genius.” This is Hollywood explaining its immorality to itself. Cruella’s resemblance to both The Favourite and Phantom Thread (the two most twisted recent feminist fantasies) proves the industry’s decadence. Frankly, so does the unappealing, unchic, drag-queen presentations by the wildly costumed Stone and Thompson. Like the film’s incessant, tiresome pop-music cues (from The Clash and Nina Simone to the Rolling Stones’ “Sympathy for the Devil”), there’s no real style, just anti-style. Director Gillespie’s random visual effects (matching tabloid newspaper fonts to Cruella’s celebrity pranks) miss the excitement of luxe and filthy lucre. When con-man Horace says of Cruella’s luxury limousine that “it’s spelled devil, but it’s pronounced ‘deVille,’” he over-explains Disney’s obvious joke.
Advertisement
Cruella is not the innocuous entertainment it pretends to be. Through the notion that Cruella’s evil scheming is cute — or that Stone’s monologue is sympathetic — the Disney Company merely teaches girls to be cruel.
﻿Emma Stone in Cruella. (Walt Disney/Trailer image via YouTube)
The corporation’s revised morality is anti-style and anti-human.
Near the end of Cruella, after lots of jumbled, meant-to-be-amusing folderol, Emma Stone in the title role pulls the loose plot strands together in a brief but striking monologue addressed to a dead mentor:
So this is a confusing day. My nemesis is my real mother. And she killed my other mother. I guess you were always scared, weren’t you, that I’d be a psycho like my real mother, huh? “Love me into shape,” I suppose, was the plan. But the thing is, I’m not sweet Estella, try as I might. I never was. I’m Cruella! Born brilliant, born bad and a little bit mad.
This confession of moral ambivalence saves the actress from her usual unlikable strident attitude. Confused between anger and self-pity, she taps into something palpable. It is the best performance of her career. Then the movie goes back to the mess of unresolved ideas typical of how the Disney corporation rehashes past hits: This time the 1961 animated feature One Hundred and One Dalmatians is rebooted into a live-action hybrid, imitating Harry Potter and Oliver Twist in hopes of capturing the family-movie audience.
But that marketing concept doesn’t distract from Hollywood’s deleterious intention; Stone and her filmmaker cohorts can barely disguise it. Cruella showcases Hollywood’s current psychopathology. It gives the 1961 cartoon villain a backstory by rummaging through bits of pop-culture history to mark women’s-movement and fashion-industry advances. “I want to be a fashion designer, not a thief,” teenage Estella tells her ragamuffin, pickpocket pals Horace (the great Paul Walter Hauser, unforgettable in Clint Eastwood’s Richard Jewell) and Jasper (Joel Fry). Her subversive nature is intended to show independent will.
Director Craig Gillespie and a team of faux-feminist screenwriters that include Tony McNamara (The Favourite) and Aline Brosh McKenna (The Devil Wears Prada) present Estella and her alter ego Cruella de Vil as a standard-bearer. They use the unwanted infant freak with two-toned hair — her white/black cartoon motif illustrates good/bad caricature — and trivialize the schizophrenia that Prince relayed so wittily and dangerously as The Joker in his Batdance music video, from 1989. Cruella ransacks pop-culture rebellion from Sixties Carnaby Street to Seventies punk (minus political resonance) as Estella vies with an aging couturier, The Baroness (Emma Thompson). This careless, anachronistic mash-up misrepresents the sexual revolution and eventually becomes #MeToo retribution. “Must dash,” Cruella concludes her monologue. “Much to avenge, revenge, and destroy!”
Advertisement
The perverse reinvention seen in Cruella recalls pundit Tammy Bruce’s insight on #MeToo panic: “The feminist movement is having a nervous breakdown.” This disorder is not just a Hillary Clinton–driven post-2016-election freakout but part of the cultural shift that takes a villain and tries to partially rehabilitate if not totally justify the character. Disney’s moral revisionism follows Broadway’s Wicked, a modification of The Wizard of Oz that rationalizes Elphaba, the Wicked Witch of the West, as queer. And just as the Harry Potter franchise justifies occultism as an alternative to Christianity, Disney similarly celebrated Angelina Jolie’s Sleeping Beauty villainess Maleficent (in two films so far). To wit: Cruella instructs Millennials that their own psychosis is excusable, admirable, and fun.
“It wasn’t her I was challenging, it was the world,” young Estella first admits. Later, The Baroness clarifies, “You’re here because you’re a brilliant designer and a wicked genius.” This is Hollywood explaining its immorality to itself. Cruella’s resemblance to both The Favourite and Phantom Thread (the two most twisted recent feminist fantasies) proves the industry’s decadence. Frankly, so does the unappealing, unchic, drag-queen presentations by the wildly costumed Stone and Thompson. Like the film’s incessant, tiresome pop-music cues (from The Clash and Nina Simone to the Rolling Stones’ “Sympathy for the Devil”), there’s no real style, just anti-style. Director Gillespie’s random visual effects (matching tabloid newspaper fonts to Cruella’s celebrity pranks) miss the excitement of luxe and filthy lucre. When con-man Horace says of Cruella’s luxury limousine that “it’s spelled devil, but it’s pronounced ‘deVille,’” he over-explains Disney’s obvious joke.
Advertisement
Cruella is not the innocuous entertainment it pretends to be. Through the notion that Cruella’s evil scheming is cute — or that Stone’s monologue is sympathetic — the Disney Company merely teaches girls to be cruel.
﻿As the Supreme Court prepares to hear a case this fall on the constitutionality of Mississippi’s ban on most abortions late in pregnancy, the Susan B. Anthony List is launching a $2 million ad campaign.
“Science tells us that at 15 weeks, these babies have formed faces. They smile, they yawn, they feel pain,” says the ad’s narrator. “It’s why European countries ban late-term abortions. In five decades, we’ve learned they are just like us. Isn’t it time the law reflects the science?”
Advertisement
You can watch it here:In response to Lab Leak and Censorship
Further to MBD’s post below, we should pause and consider how crazy it was that until, I guess, yesterday, Facebook was censoring posts that supported what may be the accurate story of the origins of the virus. This is why social-media companies should not be attempting to censor discussion of hotly contested contemporary political and social issues — most of the time, these issues aren’t as settled as elite opinion believes, or not settled at all.In response to Lab Leak and Censorship
Further to MBD’s post below, we should pause and consider how crazy it was that until, I guess, yesterday, Facebook was censoring posts that supported what may be the accurate story of the origins of the virus. This is why social-media companies should not be attempting to censor discussion of hotly contested contemporary political and social issues — most of the time, these issues aren’t as settled as elite opinion believes, or not settled at all.(Pixabay)
USA Today has published an editor’s note on an op-ed by Chelsea Mitchell, a female high-school athlete, regretting the supposedly “hurtful language” Mitchell used. Several references to the word “male” were switched to “transgender.”
.@USATODAY published our client Chelsea Mitchell’s opinion about the unfairness she experienced being forced to compete against male athletes. But after backlash from the woke mob, editors unilaterally changed Chelsea’s words & called them “hurtful language.” 1/3 pic.twitter.com/tAtzrZgPzt — Christiana Holcomb (@ChristianaADF) May 26, 2021
Mitchell’s lawyer, Christiana Holcomb, accurately described this “blatant censorship” as violating “the trust we place in media to be honest brokers of public debate.” You can read Mitchell’s original piece here.Security personnel keep watch outside the Wuhan Institute of Virology during the visit by the WHO team tasked with investigating the origins of the coronavirus in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, February 3, 2021. (Thomas Peter/Reuters)
Rich Lowry points to Matt Yglesias’s tick-tock account of the development of the consensus that the lab-leak theory was a bonkers and unscientific conspiracy theory.
I remember it well, because last April, as I started adding up the circumstantial evidence, I ventured publicly that this was where my hunch was leading me.
I’m trending back toward the “escaped from the virology lab” theory. — Michael Brendan Dougherty (@michaelbd) April 2, 2020
If you click through, you’ll find that the responses often took the form of a joke that I meant the lab was in the basement of a pizza shop in D.C. Haha!
Advertisement
Yglesias gets many of the broad stokes correct, though I think the account lacks some texture. Even on April 1, 2020, saying that the virus “escaped from the virology” lab was often confused as a claim that the virus was intentionally designed in the lab, or intentionally released as a weapon. At the time, I still thought the simplest explanation didn’t involve gain-of-function research, but simply the study of bat coronaviruses in lab conditions that were not ideal.
Yglesias ends his account with asking, like Hillary Clinton, “What difference at this point does it make?” Because Yglesias already agreed with tighter restrictions of gain-of-function research, he doesn’t see how this could be a big deal. Most people didn’t know much about gain-of-function research, and if such research were responsible for the worst manmade disaster in history, you bet it makes a difference whether or not it escaped from a lab doing that research.
But here’s another policy difference that matters, but one that isn’t exactly related to the government of states: The major social media networks — Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter — have proven willing, over and over, to do the bidding of progressive Anglophone journalists who make a stink on Twitter. These journalists are formed by institutions that teach them deference to expertise, and a special deference to experts in fields that are socially coded as progressive. They expect that in a controversy, the experts are likely to agree upon the main points of contention and only argue about unimportant details. They expect that anyone coded as “conservative” who objects does so entirely for mercenary reasons, or out of bullheadedness. And since Brexit and Donald Trump, these journalists have demanded that the social-media companies act as powerful social censors. The lab-leak theory was deemed a conspiracy theory and misinformation, and the social-media companies treated it as such. This means that YouTube demonitized or deleted content that entertained the idea. Facebook took down posts, and penalized pages for publishing information bolstering this theory. And Twitter deleted tweets, or attached warnings to them redirecting users to government agencies. These institutions have incredible power to financially punish traditional- and digital-media institutions that spread “misinformation.”
Advertisement
In my view, these networks need to abandon this editorial function — or they need to be regulated like traditional media.Morgan Chalfant and Amie Parnes write in The Hill:
A majority — 55 percent — of U.S. adults who identify as Catholic say abortion should be legal in all or most cases, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in April, while 43 percent say it should be illegal in most cases. “The fact of the matter is that Biden’s position reflects where most American Catholics are,” said David Campbell, a professor of political science at the University of Notre Dame and author of the new book “Secular Surge: A New Fault Line in American Politics.”
Not really. Biden appears to believe abortion should be legal even late in pregnancy. He favors taxpayer funding of abortions for low-income women. Even in the Pew poll, it looks like only a minority of Catholics believe abortion should be legal in “all” cases, which is a better approximation of Biden’s position than “all or most.”
A Marist poll for the Knights of Columbus, a Catholic group, asked finer-grained questions and released more complete results in January. It found that 53 percent of Americans who consider themselves Catholic believe that abortion should be allowed only in cases of rape, incest, and threats to the mother’s life, or not allowed at all. Among those Americans who describe themselves as “practicing Catholics,” the number rose to 67.
Advertisement
Sixty-three percent of Catholics, and 69 percent of practicing Catholics, opposed taxpayer funding of abortion.
I wish these last four numbers were all 100 percent. But no, most Catholics are not where Biden is on abortion.I know there’s a touch of “Get off my lawn!” in these posts, but there is, I think, a radical disconnect at work in a world in which 1) the people in Washington cannot figure out how to fix roads and bridges and conduct ordinary business without sending the nation into unprecedented debt and 2) scientists are using algae protein and magic goggles to partially restore the sight of blind people.
Advertisement
One of these points to a model of the world that works, and the other points to one that doesn’t.(Pixabay)
USA Today edited an op-ed after its publication and without consulting its author after determining that the author’s use of the word “male,” which she used to describe the transgender athletes she was forced to compete against in high school track, was “hurtful.”
In the original piece, former Connecticut high school runner Chelsea Mitchell recounts losing four state championship races to biological males, and refers to her competitors as “male.” USA Today editors changed “male” to “transgender” on Tuesday without her knowledge or consent, and posted an editor’s note apologizing for the original phrasing.
Advertisement
“This column has been updated to reflect USA TODAY’s standards and style guidelines. We regret that hurtful language was used,” the editor’s note reads.
Alliance Defending Freedom (ADF), a legal advocacy organization representing Mitchell, has published the unaltered version on its website.
“That’s a devastating experience. It tells me that I’m not good enough; that my body isn’t good enough; and that no matter how hard I work, I am unlikely to succeed, because I’m a woman,” Mitchell wrote of her losses to male runners.
The track star and three of her fellow female athletes filed a lawsuit with ADF last year against the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference (CIAC), which currently allows transgender participants in women’s and girl’s sports.
Mitchell noted the number of awards won by these players in the last few years, referencing their “massive physical advantages” and “simply bigger and stronger” bodies.
A federal district court recently dismissed Mitchell’s case, Soule v. Connecticut Association of Schools, a ruling which she and her friends are appealing alongside ADF attorneys to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit. She states that they were denied the right to fair competition that Title IX promises to girls and women.
“The court’s decision to do so tells women and girls that their feelings and opportunities don’t matter, and that they can’t expect anyone to stand up for their dignity and their rights,” Mitchell said.
Advertisement
Mitchell is suing the CIAC for damages, citing the uncounted scholarship and opportunities for college recruitment she may have never qualified for because of her record of losing four state championship titles to a biological male athlete.
As of February, at least 20 state legislatures have passed bills preventing transgender males from playing in women’s sports. Mitchell’s lawsuit update follows the Biden administration’s executive order that would force all federally funded entities to permit males to compete against females.
Biden also recently issued a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) notice of enforcement that it will start pressuring states to cover gender transition surgeries and medical procedures in their Medicare programs in a new ‘non-discrimination’ rule that redefines sex.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Emma Stone in Cruella. (Walt Disney Studios)
Disney turns one of its legendary villains into a poor, misunderstood fashion genius in a shameless act of pandering.
One of my favorite bits of box-office trivia is that, in inflation-adjusted dollars, 101 Dalmatians remains the second-highest-grossing animated film of all time, behind only Snow White, and among all movies on the domestic box-office chart it sits at No. 16. It’s still immensely charming today, as hearty and dependable as the Studebakers in which families of seven went off to see it.
Advertisement
Cruella, a prequel/spinoff/origin story that ends where the original movie began, takes a somewhat different tack. It’s a tacky tack, and to be more specific, it’s a TikTok tacky tack, devised by hacks. The picture is slick but dull, glitzy but witless, expensively boring. But it’s not just a bad movie — slowly paced, with flat dialogue, supporting characters as interesting as shrubbery, and Victorian plot contrivances. It’s bad in a way that signifies, just as Frozen 2 heralded a Wuhan Institute of Virology-style gain-of-function weaponization of full-spectrum wokeness disguised as a princess cartoon.
Starring Emma Stone, whose lack of acting chops grows more and more evident with each passing year, Cruella isn’t politically propagandistic, but rather it panders to and nurtures personality defects in its audience as shamelessly as if it went to a convention for the morbidly obese and started pitching Twinkies into the crowd. The movie has the structure of a girl-power clash between an imperious fashionista and her young apprentice — The de Vil Wears Prada — larded up with the excesses of the comic-book genre. Underneath that, it reinforces the tendencies of TikTok obsessed tween and teen girls who are already given to leveraging their self-pity while vamping it up in 15-second bursts of cuteness. The movie screams, “Let’s put on a b**chfest! Except, er . . . it was this other b**ch who made me who I am, plus I had, like, this really difficult London orphan childhood? Like Oliver Twist? Only worse because I’m really pretty?” Cruella actually recites the line (in the first five minutes!) “I am woman, hear me roar.” Whoever came up with that idea should have had a baked potato thrown at her in the script meeting.
Advertisement
I’ve got 99 problems with this movie, not counting the two b**ches in it, who bring the total up to 101. The new Cruella is really Stella, a lonely and abused child turned misunderstood genius who loves animals. Her psychosis is just a stage act that exemplifies how empowered she is, and anyway, she has every right to hate Dalmatians since three of them attacked someone dear to her (in one of several stupid and forced plot contrivances). The real villain (apart from the wicked spotty dogs who act less like Dalmatians than Dobermans) is Cruella’s Anna Wintour-like boss, the Baroness, head of a fashion line who is played with a massive thud by Emma Thompson. The way Cruella tries to reconcile the conflicting messages of “When you’re bad, own it” and “My alleged badness is just an indication that my enemies are everywhere and have gaslighted everyone” typifies its adolescent incoherence.
Advertisement
The Baroness is supposed to be campy fun, but since none of the film’s writers managed to come up with any zingers for her (the atrocious screenplay is credited to Dana Fox and Tony McNamara), she seems smaller than life; instead of being the villain you love to hate, she’s just a nasty boss. In repayment for her sins, she suffers the indignity of getting upstaged at her fashion shows by her mousy assistant Stella in disguise. In payback for the Baroness’s various sins, Stella builds a Vivienne Westwood-meets-Joker alter ego in Cruella, who isn’t even cruel. It’s just a punk name, not a reflection of her personality. (See also Johnny Rotten or Joe Strummer.) Like the beneficent Maleficent, Cruella is just swell-a.
Advertisement
Cruella, whose true identity is a big juicy secret until the ruse peters out in one of many dramatic opportunities blown by director Craig Gillespie (I, Tonya), doesn’t even kill dogs this time around, not even when one of them eats a key piece of jewelry. She spends half the movie waiting for a Dalmatian to poop it out, and I really miss the Jerry Bruckheimer era now that we’ve gotten to a place where “waiting for a dog to relieve his bowels” is the kind of story beat writers of summer blockbusters think they can turn in without getting fired. Also, who is paying for Cruella’s fabulous guerilla fashion shows? One of them looks like it cost approximately as much as the opening ceremony of the London Olympics to stage. An entry-level fashion designer who lives in a squat somehow has the budget to put on shows that put her boss’s offerings to shame, and Cruella’s overnight fame reinforces the impression among young TikTokers that life’s greatest imperative is to grab everyone’s attention by vamping it up. Bizarrely enough, though, the movie misapprehends its intended audience’s attention span, lumbering on for two-and-a-quarter hours (including a mid-credits sequence) in which there are so many slow stretches and pre-announced plot twists that the movie practically invites its watchers to get out their phones and see if anything has gone viral lately.
Loud, long, dumb, humorless, and charmless, built around a heroine we don’t love and a villain we don’t hate, Cruella not only lacks everything that made 101 Dalmatians wonderful, it does everything the opposite way. Someday, under the definition of decadence, dictionaries will cite the slide from 101 Dalmatians to Cruella as example A.
﻿Lockheed Martin, the nation’s largest defense contractor, put top executives through a three-day training to deconstruct their “white male culture” and unlearn their “white male privilege,” according to a new report.
Thirteen employees, including a former three-star general and the vice president of production for the $1.7 trillion F-35 fighter jet program, attended a program on Zoom last year led by the consulting firm White Men As Full Diversity Partners, according to City Journal’s Christopher Rufo. The firm works to help white men “awaken together.”
The program was led by the consulting firm White Men As Full Diversity Partners, which specializes in helping white males “awaken together.” The participants included a former three-star general and the vice president of production for the $1.7 trillion F-35 fighter jet program. pic.twitter.com/x5YU2bBNbn — Christopher F. Rufo ⚔️ (@realchrisrufo) May 26, 2021
The training began with a “free association” exercise which asked the Lockheed executives to list words associated with “white men.” The trainers listed “old, racist, privileged, anti-women, angry, Aryan Nation, KKK, Founding fathers, guns, guilty, can’t jump,” according to Rufo.
Advertisement
The diversity trainers posed the question, “What’s in it for white men?” A list of responses included, “I won’t get replaced by someone who is a better full diversity partner,” “[I will] improve the brand, image, reputation of white men,” and “I [will] have less nagging sense of guilt that I am the problem.”
The consulting firm claims that the “roots of white male culture” include traits such as “rugged individualism,” “a can-do attitude,” “hard work,” “operating from principles,” and “striving towards success”—which are “devastating” to women and minorities.
The employees were also asked to recite and internalize 50 “white privilege statements,” including: “My culture teaches me to minimize the perspectives and powers of people of other races”; “I can commit acts of terrorism, violence or crime and not have it attributed to my race.”
After the participants finished their white privilege statements, they were asked to recite and internalize 59 “male privilege statements,” including: “My earning potential is 15-33% higher than a woman’s”; “My reproductive organs are not seen as the property of other men, the government, and/or even strangers because of my gender.”
For the final step, the employees recited and internalized 59 “heterosexual privilege statements,” including: “I am not asked to think about why I am straight”; “I can have friendships with or work around children without being accused of recruiting or molesting them.”
Advertisement
The training concluded by asking the participants to read a list of “I’m tired” statements attributed to fictitious people of color and woman, such as “I’m tired of being Black”; “I’m tired of Black boys/girls being murdered”; “I’m tired of … the concept that we should be ‘colorblind.’”
“This is pure neoracism from a company that receives billions of taxpayer dollars every year,” Rufo said in a tweet thread sharing his reporting. “I call on the United States Senate to launch an immediate inquiry into the racist practices at @LockheedMartin. We must shut this down before it endangers our national security.”
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Irish singer Sinead O’Connor performs on stage during the Positivus music festival in Salacgriva, July 18, 2009. (Ints Kalnins/Reuters)
The New York Times recently published a profile of Sinéad O’Connor by Amanda Hess that tries to declare vindication for O’Connor’s notorious 1992 protest on Saturday Night Live in which she tore up a picture of Pope John Paul II on live television while declaring, “Fight the real enemy!” You can watch that here:
According to Hall:
Few cultural castaways have been more vindicated by the passage of time: child sexual abuse, and its cover-up within the Catholic Church, is no longer an open secret. John Paul II finally acknowledged the church’s role in 2001, nearly a decade after O’Connor’s act of defiance. But the overreaction to O’Connor was not just about whether she was right or wrong; it was about the kinds of provocations we accept from women in music.
Now, if you read the profile of O’Connor, it comes through clearly that she is a badly broken person — beaten by her mother throughout childhood, with serious substance-abuse problems (“I can’t remember many details because I was constantly stoned”) — who never wanted to be a pop star, and is happier away from the spotlight, where she has changed her name and converted to Islam. If you view her SNL stunt as an effort to self-destruct her pop-music stardom as a means of saving her sanity and refocusing her art away from the demands of radio, then it does appear to have been successful. It was not the last time she did something like this; in 2018 she tweeted, “I’m terribly sorry. What I’m about to say is something so racist I never thought my soul could ever feel it. But truly I never wanna spend time with white people again (if that’s what non-muslims are called). Not for one moment, for any reason. They are disgusting.” She later claimed that she was just trying to get herself kicked off of Twitter by being racist.
If we are measuring by any yardstick other than deliberate self-sabotage, however, the problem with declaring O’Connor’s protest “vindicated” is that it fails to grapple with the fact that her protest was not only spectacularly unsuccessful and counterproductive, it was essentially designed to be so. Onstage, O’Connor did not even bother to explain what she was protesting the Church about. She instead took on the hugely popular Pope — who had been one of the defining figures in the great, winning cultural struggle against the evil and dehumanizing brutality of Communism over the previous decade and a half — and declared him, personally, to be “evil” and “the real enemy.” It was commonly understood as an attack on the Catholic Church and its billion-plus believers. In that sense, it was very much like attacking the American flag and the National Anthem precisely for their symbolic power — a protest designed to inflame rather than persuade, and one that is sure to turn people away from the topic of the protest. There is a strange romance, among people on the left half of the political spectrum, with the idea that it is noble to stage a protest that alienates rather than engages the audience, as a way of demonstrating the moral superiority of the protester over the common people.
Was O’Connor penalized more harshly for being a woman? An ironic question, given that one of the people who criticized her was Madonna, who has regularly used provocations to accentuate her career. There is no question that O’Connor suffered more for this kind of protest as a pop singer than a rock star would have. A male pop star would likely have suffered many of the same slings and arrows. But it is certainly true that, the occasional Madonna or Lady Gaga aside, women in pop music tend to be treated as unserious and uncontroversial — or if they do stir controversy, they are encouraged to do so by being hypersexualized or by being blandly conformist Democratic partisans, rather than by the kind of things we expect from punk rockers. That was even truer in 1992.People watch a movie in a cinema in Shanghai, China, July 20, 2020. (Aly Song/Reuters)
Action-movie star John Cena’s fulsome and abject apology for having offended China by referring in passing to Taiwan as a “country” while promoting his new movie F9 may have set a new low for cringing cravenness in Hollywood. As the celebrated wit David Burge said on Twitter, “I can’t blame John Cena, he can’t risk his career by being hauled up before the Beijing House Un-Chinese Activity Committee.”
Advertisement
These days Hollywood is so obsessed with growth in the Chinese marketplace that studios have routinely granted Chinese interests 75 percent of every box-office dollar its films generate there, edited storylines to please Chinese censors (bye-bye, Tibetan character in Doctor Strange), and, in Disney’s case, even badgered a U.S. magazine to scrub an eight-year-old reference made by its Oscar-winning Nomadland director Chloé Zhao to the lies and repression back in her native country. Movies such as 2012 and The Martian reek with flattery for the ingenuity and humanitarianism of red China. That Cena has spent more than ten years studying Mandarin Chinese is a clarifying detail: Hollywood types are willing to go to stupendous lengths to please the world’s soon-to-be-biggest movie market.
The movie business fancies itself a fierce opponent of racism, sexism, and excessive carbon emissions, even as it habitually prostrates itself before a regime that subjugates Muslims, perpetuates female infanticide on a breathtaking scale, and burns so much coal that its carbon emissions are more than double those of the U.S. Every Academy Awards ceremony bristles with disgust for the supposed pervasiveness of injustice in America, and at any given moment, Hollywood is threatening to boycott this or that state over some allegedly intolerable legislative act. Yet it’s hard to picture just what level of obsequiousness Hollywood might not consider in exchange for the right to continue to claim one out of every four dollars its movies generate in China. Last year, in the credits of the remake of Mulan, Disney thanked the “security agency” that persecutes Uyghurs in Xinjiang province.
Advertisement
Hollywood folk are far from alone in endangering their kneecaps in servility to Beijing; self-styled “King” LeBron James proved a vassal to Xi Jinping when he spouted CCP propaganda in rebuttal to the support for Hong Kong’s democracy movement expressed by the Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey. Mark Zuckerberg, who is desperate for Facebook to be unblocked in China, has given unctuous speeches there in Mandarin in an effort to seem like a friend of the regime. Apple lobbied against a bill that would punish forced-labor factories in China by preventing their goods from being exported to the U.S.
Yet Hollywood’s taste for Chinese shoe leather sets the standard. When Chinese censors demanded Quentin Tarantino remove from Once Upon a Time in Hollywood a (hilarious) scene that mocked Seventies Hong Kong action star Bruce Lee, Tarantino told China to stuff it. Tarantino’s willingness to defend his work was so wildly uncharacteristic of his industry that it made headlines, so don’t hold your breath expecting any of his peers to stick up for the principle of saving art from authoritarians. Hollywood, that great American institution, is well on its way to being a wholly owned subsidiary of China, Inc.Xavier Becerra during his nomination hearing for HHS secretary, Washington, D.C., February 24, 2021 (Greg Nash/Reuters)
On the menu today: Sorry folks, I really tried, but I can’t contain my internal tsunami of “I told you so.” The crowd of prominent figures who are open to the lab-leak theory now includes Health and Human Services secretary Xavier Becerra! And on a lighter note, let’s contemplate if Marvel Studios is about to hit a wall.
No, Really, Last April, I Really Did Tell You So!
WHAT THE HECK: “Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra told an annual ministerial meeting of the World Health Organization that international experts should be given ‘the independence to fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak.’”
Advertisement
Oh, now the Biden administration is willing to openly state that this whole pandemic might trace back to someone not being careful in a Chinese state-run lab working on dangerous viruses.
Okay, I didn’t want today’s newsletter to be all about the lab-leak theory again, when I wrote about it Monday, and last Tuesday, and before that, I wrote that Corner post about the evidence of the Chinese government’s secret bioweapons-research programs, and the NR editorial board welcomed Dr. Fauci to those open to the theory, and Charlie wrote about how the skeptics have been guessing this whole time, and Michael wrote about the ramifications, and I’m sure I’m forgetting other recent pieces. Oh, and I’ve got another long examination of the evidence on the editor’s desk that will probably be before your eyes sometime this week. Maybe you’re sick of hearing about the lab-leak theory, and if so, skip down a little further to read about Marvel movies.
But it is so weird that it seems like every day, another allegedly respectable, even-tempered, non-lunatic government official or public-health expert or writer who had absolutely nothing to say about the lab-leak theory for almost any day of the past 17 months, now publicly states some version of, “Sure, this virus’s origin is still unknown, a lab leak can’t be ruled out, and a much more thorough investigation is needed.”
Advertisement
Jonathan Chait wrote a piece titled, “How the Liberal Media Dismissed the Lab-Leak Theory and Smeared Its Supporters.” Matt Yglesias’s most recent newsletter is titled, “The media’s lab leak fiasco.” The Washington Post’s chief fact-checker, Glenn Kessler, wrote that “the Wuhan lab-leak theory suddenly became credible.” (Suddenly!) CNN’s Zachary Wolf writes “scientists are suddenly more interested in the lab-leak theory of Covid’s origin.” (Suddenly, again!)
Where the hell were all of you guys last April?
Where the hell was all of this when The New Republic wrote that I was “peddling an outlandish theory,” that I was the “media personality who jumped farthest down this rabbit hole,” and “when mainstream news outlets reported that most experts considered the Wuhan facility to be secure”?
You morons. Idiots. Schmucks. You all sat there, so smug and confident that you guys were the smart ones, and that knuckle-dragging little old me, with my YouTube video from an expat, Google Translate versions of Chinese-state health agency websites, and old medical-research papers, had to be chasing Bigfoot and Elvis and UFOs. Set up the buffet table of crow, because I want to watch all of you eat a lot of it.
This gif, this gif, this gif.
Advertisement
Advertisement
All I did was take three incontrovertible forces in human life seriously: the capacity for human error in a laboratory, the universal temptation to try to cover up a consequential mistake once it’s made, and the far-reaching power of a totalitarian government when attempting to enact that cover-up.
The only reason the Soviet Union admitted what happened at Chernobyl to the world was because radiation detectors 700 miles away in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, and Norway were going off. For decades, the Soviets successfully covered up an anthrax spill from a biological-weapons facility that killed 64 people. Modern Chinese society is full of allegations of official screw-ups with deadly consequences and attempted cover-ups: the worst space-launch accident in history at Xichang in 1996, a high-speed train crash in 2011, the coverup of flood deaths in 2012.
Authoritarian governments, and those who work within them, are terrified of ever admitting a mistake. Authoritarian governments need to look all-powerful and always-competent, lest the citizenry get ideas about changing who’s in charge.
If I had a quarter for every time I was told I wasn’t a scientist, I could play Pac-Man at the arcade for the rest of my days. I never claimed to be a scientist, nor that I played one on TV. You know what I have spent a good chunk of my adult life studying? Government bureaucracies. This is a story of viruses, yes, but it’s also a story of what human beings do when they make a mistake.
Advertisement
The first time a person is given a complicated and detailed series of instructions for handing a dangerous and contagious virus, they’re going to be exceptionally careful and follow every step to the letter. They’re justifiably terrified of the consequences of failure. They’ll be really careful the first ten times. Maybe even the first hundred.
But the 500th time? Or the 1,000th time? Or the 2,000th time? Familiarity breeds complacency. People shift into mental autopilot. We see this phenomenon in fields far from laboratories handling dangerous pathogens: “Accidents on the job or in the home occur when people get too comfortable in doing their tasks and they no longer fear the hazards around them. This is why 52 percent of all car accidents are within five miles of the home — drivers are less focused and more lackadaisical as they get closer to their house and comfort zone area.”
The dumbest argument I encountered in the past year and a half was the insistence that the researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology and the Wuhan Centers for Disease Control were too careful, too diligent, and simply too professional to ever have an accidental leak. A statement like that was a clear, flashing neon sign that I was dealing with someone who didn’t really know what they were talking about.
Advertisement
Advertisement
The best laboratories in the world, with the most respected scientists and researchers in the world, still have accidents. In June 2014, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention determined that it had unintentionally exposed personnel to potentially viable anthrax. A month later the U.S. Food and Drug Administration found samples of smallpox, dengue, and spotted fever just sitting in a storage room. If our guys can make mistakes, their guys can make mistakes.
And as I laid out back on March 23, 2020, as this pandemic started, the Chinese government lied, and lied, and lied some more. It is less plausible to contend that the Chinese government would not try to cover something like this up than to contend it would.
I’ve got a theory about the sudden shift on thinking about the theory: A lot of these folks placed an early bet on skepticism, assuming that at some point, researchers would find bats in nature that had SARS-CoV-2. Or pangolins. Or a group of animal smugglers who suffered from intense respiratory infections in November 2019. Or some other evidence to support the theory that this virus came into the city of Wuhan through some path unconnected to the labs. That evidence hasn’t emerged, 18 months into the pandemic, suggesting that maybe it never will.
Advertisement
If the argument is, “President Trump floated the theory, thus it had to be false . . .” well, that’s stupid. Broken clocks are right twice a day.
If the argument is, “Discussion of the lab-leak theory seemed like an attempt to get the Trump administration off the hook for their mistakes and bad decisions during the early months of the pandemic,” here’s the beautiful thing about blame: It’s a renewable natural resource! We’re never going to run out of it. Being mad at the Chinese government over its decisions leading up to and during this pandemic is not an endorsement of every U.S. government decision!
For the First Time in a Long While, Marvel Faces Some Risks
Our Jack Butler had a good piece over the weekend, asking whether the Marvel Cinematic Universe had peaked, both financially and creatively. Sure, the movie studio that grew out of the beloved comic books has a slew of projects coming down the pike, including a backlog of ideas delayed by the pandemic. And the first two Marvel television series on Disney Plus, WandaVision and The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, generated plenty of buzz. (WandaVision might be the most spectacularly unpredictable, what-the-hell-is-happening, what-does-that-clue-mean mystery series since Twin Peaks.) It’s very hard to believe that every Marvel offering in the next year or two or three will strike out.
But a larger-than-life central personality like that of Robert Downey Jr. isn’t easily replaced, and Avengers: Endgame marked the end of some of the series’s most popular characters. We’re going to have to see how well Wakanda-based stories work without the magnetic charisma of Chadwick Boseman. And Marvel is transitioning to newer characters with less-established fanbases; I collected comics back in the late ’80s and early ’90s, and I haven’t heard of some of the new characters. Then again, most of the general public hadn’t heard of the Guardians of the Galaxy before 2014, and audiences fell in love with a talking racoon and a giant, gentle, sentient tree even so.
Advertisement
First, that Shang Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings trailer looks fun — very Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon — but the trailer doesn’t feel that much like a Marvel movie, at least not yet. It looks like a spectacular, large-scale kung-fu movie, not a movie about superheroes — but we’ll see.
As for that Eternals trailer . . . eh. It’s very odd for a Marvel movie’s first trailer to not show, mention, or make any reference to the film’s villain. As far as we can tell, the Eternals mostly stand and pose dramatically in slow motion. And the voice-over declaration, presumably from the team’s titular heroes: “We have watched, unguided; we have helped them progress and seen them accomplish wonders. Throughout the years we have never interfered . . . until now.” Really? Thanos didn’t warrant a little intervention? Y’all just watched when the Chitauri invaded New York City? What, is this the United Nations Human Rights Panel of Superheroes?
This is an all-star cast — Angelina Jolie, Gemma Chan, Salma Hayek, Kit Harrington — and a story about a bickering team or family of super-powered beings should be really hard to screw up.
But if Marvel does screw it up and really goes into a slump . . . they’ve still got the rights to the X-Men back from 20th Century Fox.
ADDENDUM: Our Jay Nordlinger has a spectacular story about the late senator John Warner, who passed away at 94 this week: “On one occasion, the Senate was pulling an all-night session. The guys were sleeping on cots. [Senator George] Mitchell was grumbling about this and feeling a little sorry for himself. Then he stepped over a sleeping John Warner and thought, ‘Well, ordinarily he’s sleeping with Elizabeth Taylor, so . . .’”Spike Lee attends the 91st Oscars Nominees Luncheon in Beverly Hills, Calif., February 4, 2019. (David McNew/Reuters)
How Spike Lee’s semiotics of death created Millennial icons of George Floyd and Eric Garner
Joe Biden’s commemoration of George Floyd marked the one-year anniversary of trauma porn. The video of Floyd’s fatal arrest (still controversial despite a contentious trial) is credited for kick-starting the global spread of the Black Lives Matter movement under the guise of moral outrage. Even the Oscars praised Darnella Frazier’s amateur cellphone video of the incident as a landmark, equal in significance to Hollywood’s own productions. Frazier’s recording of a black American male’s actual death, endlessly broadcast by mainstream media, facilitated the progressive political animosity to which Biden owes his presidency. But those images also became the emblem of modern race consciousness and threaten to redefine contemporary art.
Advertisement
Floyd’s prone body and officer Derek Chauvin’s agitated facial expression — images without a backstory — projected familiar yet unexamined race and class differences. It provoked brand-new American imperialist guilt that everyone is cowed by.
That explains the video’s illicit thrill. It’s prurient and obscene, and its mortification has been taken up by news media for everybody to see repeatedly and thus abuse themselves — self-righteously. It’s trauma porn.
The Los Angeles Times addressed the subject of trauma porn in an April 19, 2021, article on recent violent movies and television programs featuring brutalized black Americans. But one of the best demonstrations of trauma porn came from Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi when, on April 20 following the Chauvin-trial verdict, she praised the late George Floyd in a phony religious allegory: “Thank you, George Floyd, for sacrificing your life for justice.” Pelosi’s comment about “sacrifice,” officially making drug-abuser, felon Floyd into an American martyr, did exactly what craven movie and TV producers do: It was a calculated reworking of the trauma-porn impulse, unaccountably supported by Eleanor Holmes Norton, the black congresswoman from D.C., standing by to lend approval to Pelosi’s race exploitation.
Advertisement
Art-conscious politicians might well consider another trauma-porn landmark, the one-year anniversary of Spike Lee’s 3 Brothers, released at this time last year. Running one and a half minutes, the short film uses disturbing visual rhetoric, intercutting the Radio Raheem choke-hold scenes from Lee’s fictitious Do the Right Thing, from 1989, with the public-domain cellphone videos of George Floyd’s and Eric Garner’s arrests. In the same way that Lee’s Chi-Raq totally bungled the black-on-black gang killings in Chicago, 3 Brothers jumbles together unrelated social events and public protests. Lee oversimplifies the obvious, immediate responses to his own imagery. (Lee’s gloating agitprop also sullies the title of Francesco Rosi’s 1982 familial masterpiece, Three Brothers.)
Lee’s propaganda is used to sicken, not inspire — trauma porn that’s deathly not erotic. Lee joined the Fake News cabal that manipulates viewers — particularly black viewers — into believing they’re victimized. The most disgusting image-making this century has been the news media’s careless repetition of death scenes, recklessly shown out of context. The demoralizing result has transformed public sentiment into social disintegration.
We should ask the basic journalistic questions of 3 Brothers: Who, What, Where, When, How, and Why. These standards for facts and information are also aesthetic standards that must be applied even to the specious works of manipulation that are Lee’s specialty, which is movies designed to stir more anger, disgust, and discontent — but never satisfaction.
Advertisement
White-exploitation movies aim at a specific audience, trauma porn targets us all to force a social reckoning. Trauma porn benefits white and black politicians seeking easy popularity, just as it is the currency of social-justice media and the Marxist odiousness taught in academia. University of California, Irvine, professor Frank B. Wilderson’s Afro-pessimism theory calls trauma porn by a more sophisticated label: “the semiotics of death.” Wilderson’s theory helps us connect the image of George Floyd’s dying to other signs of deliberate finality, from lynching to police killings, that the media use to certify Western culture’s abuse of “the black body.” (That phrase is rich with the history of academic political indoctrination, favored by post-graduate media hires.)
According to Hollywood producers and manipulative liberals, Jim Crow, lynching, and corporal violation have not ended since slavery. The TV genre that encompasses HBO’s Watchmen, Antebellum, Lovecraft Country, Them, and The Underground Railroad would not exist without endless iterations of the 1921 Tulsa race riots as justification for trauma-porn narratives. They fit into the conundrum of Afro-pessimism that Hollywood hustlers take as an excuse for the genre’s self-righteous sensationalism, starting with Precious, 12 Years a Slave, Get Out, and Us, with more like Dawn Porter’s Rise Again surely to come.
Advertisement
Trauma porn is not just about the exploitation of marginalized people (black-on-black gang violence that might also be seen as trauma porn is exempt from media and political attention). It’s also meant to keep voters fearful and partisan. Before the Los Angeles Times spotlighted the label, we had already experienced how news media traditionally used trauma porn as part of their “If it bleeds, it leads” yellow-journalism philosophy. News media proved their liberalism — through over-insistence on pathos-driven stories about racial victimization. No one considers the 1992 Rodney King police-brutality video as trauma porn, given that it challenged all precepts of observation and judgment. But times, aesthetics, and media bias have changed. Traumatizing imagery connects to the new sense of shame and helplessness and to Obama’s call to “fundamentally transform America.”
For New Yorkers, video images of Eric Garner’s fatal moments after illegally selling “loosies” (cigarettes) and resisting arrest were more deeply ingrained, through constant repetition, than the campaign images of Bill de Blasio’s big-Afro’d biracial son. As de Blasio and Pelosi know, these images manipulate racial identity. Their sentimentality brainwashes, setting new moral precedents and becoming an effective tool for anarchists and power grabbers, whether they’re politicians or filmmakers like Spike Lee.
Trauma porn — the genre of violent film imagery that uses black people to instill viewers’ guilt, pity, and horror — is no different from the phrase “systemic racism” spouted by media folk who think they’re saying something intelligent. Using symbols without depth or explanation leads to what art critic Maureen Mullarkey has called “the treachery of images.” When mainstream media repeat images of black deaths or of George Floyd’s large, accusatory facial features — on many placards and murals, he resembles Picasso’s Cubism — the effect is not complicated, and it’s not art. The celebration and commemoration of trauma porn is just political filth and cultural rot.Mother Teresa in 1986 (Jacques Boissinot/Reuters)
The latest attempt to destroy the reputation of a modern Catholic saint is as baseless as past efforts.
Touting a scurrilous podcast, Michelle Goldberg in her column in the New York Times last Friday mused whether Mother Teresa of Calcutta was actually more of a cult leader than a saint. In so doing, Goldberg displayed her ignorance of the woman, the Christian meaning of human suffering, and, most of all, the inspiration for her work. Mother Teresa founded the Missionaries of Charity to bring the love of God to the poorest of the poor throughout the world. For over 70 years, the MCs, as they are affectionately known, have provided compassionate care to the dying and those suffering from malnutrition, leprosy, AIDS, and, now, COVID.
Advertisement
Danger is nothing new to Mother Teresa’s nuns. They freely assume such risks — even life-threatening ones. Their missions in Yemen, Syria, Iraq, Haiti, and other countries torn by violence place these women in harm’s way every day. Several have been killed in the line of duty. Those who enter the MC convent do so knowing that they will receive no salary or health insurance but instead depend entirely upon divine providence for all their material needs. Despite the heroic sacrifices asked of them, the MCs are known for their joy and cheerfulness, and a surprisingly small number of them have quit the convent.
But one who did apparently has a score to settle. Mary Johnson, who left the MCs in the 1990s, wrote about her experiences in an obscure book that now is the basis for a new, ten-part podcast, The Turning: The Sisters Who Left. Johnson, an atheist, was not your standard nun during the years she professed faith in God. She once described her state of mind in the convent as follows: “I wanted intimacy, I wanted sex. . . . I was tired of looking at these desires as temptations. They seemed so full of God, not the devil.”
Advertisement
Johnson was free to pursue those desires out in the world and leave the MCs any time she wanted. But she didn’t. Instead, she chose to remain an MC and break her vows. She claims she had a sexual tryst with a priest. She lied to Mother Teresa when confronted by a report that she had been discovered in bed with a woman under her supervision. All of this is in Johnson’s book, including other ways she betrayed Mother Teresa’s trust, not to mention eavesdropped on her. Through it all, Mother Teresa treated Johnson as kindly as Jesus treated Judas.
Erika Lantz and other former colleagues from the Boston affiliate of National Public Radio who produced the podcast knew that the best way to put their new media company on the map was to denigrate a revered religious leader and her companions. Sadly, the smear campaign against Mother Teresa and the MCs is only beginning. In upcoming episodes, the podcast will air false allegations, of sexual abuse against innocent MCs, leveled by a few embittered women dismissed from the MCs for conduct unbecoming nuns. (An eyewitness saw one choking another sister who rebuffed her amorous advances.) And expect a continued disparagement of Catholic moral teaching and the role of redemptive suffering in consecrated life. It seems the “sisters who left” harbor grievances with their former superiors and are hell-bent on airing them.
Advertisement
What won’t be broadcast is an account of the deceitful tactics of Lantz and her colleagues last fall when they contacted the MCs in Calcutta and cynically sought their unwitting cooperation in the hit piece then under development. Lantz never mentioned to the MCs that Johnson was the co-producer of and inspiration for the podcast. I alerted Calcutta to the bad faith animating Lantz’s media project and informed her that the MCs would have nothing to do with her program. She then sent Calcutta a 16-page list of questions and requests for documents. Presumably, Lantz wanted the MCs to set aside their work with COVID victims in India to provide her more grist for her stories.
The MCs did not respond to her. Instead they promised to pray for Johnson and the others. If I have learned anything during my 35 years of association with them, it is that no plague, famine, or media attack will distract them from their vocations of love. Each day more than 5,000 women in 139 countries follow in Mother Teresa’s footsteps, joined by the hundreds of professed brothers and priests of her order. They happily serve those whom Mother Teresa described as “Jesus in His distressing disguise of the poorest of the poor,” come what may. With the MC nuns, as with Mother Teresa, there is no fleeing, no turning. They are the sisters who stayed.Tourists view the Hollywood sign from Hollywood Boulevard. (Mike Blake/Reuters)
Responding to the news that Fast & Furious 9 actor John Cena apologized in Mandarin for ‘accidentally’ calling Taiwan a country, Dylan Matthews of Vox tweeted the following:
China apologists are always warning about a new Cold War but one difference is that in the last Cold War pro-Soviet actors and writers were blacklisted, whereas now anti-CCP actors and writers are bullied by their studios until they repent https://t.co/dy1EFbU5kh — dylan matthews (@dylanmatt) May 25, 2021
Matthews seems to be on the right side of this particular question, so I don’t wish to be too mean in response. But this tweet reflects an incomplete understanding of 20th-century Hollywood history. Blacklisting, the formal banning of Communist-affiliated Hollywood talent from being involved in film productions, began in earnest in 1947, when the House Un-American Activities Committee turned its attention to Hollywood. Before that, Communist infiltration in Tinseltown was already quite real. Before the U.S. entered the war, for example, Party members in Hollywood secretly obeyed a Moscow directive to take an isolationist rather than pro-Hitler stance once the Nazi-Soviet nonagggression pact was signed in 1939.
Communist infiltration as a going concern was then complicated, somewhat, by the fact that, during World War II, the U.S. and the Soviet Union were, for a time, ostensible allies. So it was convenient for Hollywood’s Communists that it was in America’s interests to produce such Soviet propaganda films as 1943’s North Star and Mission to Moscow and 1944’s Song of Russia. But their wartime behavior was still highly suspect even with this qualification. You could support the American war effort without joining the Communist Party, but that didn’t stop screenwriter Dalton Trumbo from doing so the same year Mission to Moscow came out. Communists organized and often were in charge of many of the various production guilds and other groups that dominated the behind-the-scenes world of moviemaking. And while there were examples of Soviet propaganda made during the war, the greater effect on Hollywood was what wasn’t made. As an account in Reason magazine put it:
But if Comintern fantasies of a Soviet Hollywood were never realized, party functionaries nevertheless played a significant role: They were sometimes able to prevent the production of movies they opposed. The party had not only helped organize the Screen Writers Guild, it had organized the Story Analysts Guild as well. Story analysts judge scripts and film treatments early in the decision making process. A dismissive report often means that a studio will pass on a proposed production. The party was thus well positioned to quash scripts and treatments with anti-Soviet content, along with stories that portrayed business and religion in a favorable light. In The Worker, Dalton Trumbo openly bragged that the following works had not reached the screen: Arthur Koestler’s Darkness at Noon and The Yogi and the Commissar; Victor Kravchenko’s I Chose Freedom; and Bernard Clare by James T. Farrell, also author of Studs Lonigan and vilified by party enforcer Mike Gold as “a vicious, voluble Trotskyite.”
After the war, many of Hollywood’s Communists went to serious lengths to try to turn the American film industry to Moscow’s advantage. Some of the New Deal liberals who had worked with them during the war — such as Ronald Reagan (before his ‘conversion’) and Olivia de Havilland — were aghast at such attempts once the war was over. De Havilland, a member of the Hollywood Independent Citizens’ Committee for the Arts, Sciences and Professions (led by secret Communist Hannah Dorner), was particularly incensed at the increasing radicalism of her organization, and helped to reveal it for the Communist front it was.
Yes, the blacklist eventually did happen, and the famous “Hollywood Ten” (including Trumbo) were convicted of contempt of Congress and did jail time. Many others fell victim to its excesses, and were unable to work in the industry thereafter. Though some managed to keep working throughout this period, and they had many defenders and sympathizers. At any rate, by the 1960s, the blacklist had ended; Trumbo, for example, returned formally to screenwriting, and received retroactive credit for his various clandestine accomplishments during the time he couldn’t technically be involved in Hollywood productions. And now, the blacklisting era is just consigned to the same period of hysteria as McCarthyism, regardless of the veracity of the complaints at the root of both phenomena (Joseph McCarthy may have been a demagogue, but there were actual Communists in the government as well as in Hollywood). The blacklisted are now seen as martyrs and victims, given and sympathetic biographies. But yes, it did happen. Let’s not deny that.
But we shouldn’t downplay the extent of Communist infiltration of Hollywood in the past. It was not a simple matter of Hollywood immediately clamping down on Communist influence, preventing a beachhead from ever forming there. It was very real for a time, with many active collaborators, and many more useful idiots along for the ride. So, in a sense, our current era is not completely different from the past. The biggest difference is that now the infiltration, subversion, and prostration are happening in the open, showing up in what is made rather than what isn’t, and are in pursuit (at least ostensibly) of dollars rather than ideology, with those complicit not realizing the extent to which those dollars support that ideology. John Cena didn’t have to become a member of the Chinese Communist Party to do its bidding. That creates new challenges for those interested in fighting the new Hollywood Communists. Yet it doesn’t make the past irrelevant in seeking guidance on how to do so.Outside the Wuhan Institute of Virology, February 2021 (Thomas Peter/Reuters)
The Wuhan-lab-leak theory of COVID’s origins, mocked as a conspiracy for more than a year, is finally getting the serious consideration it deserves.
There was a “scientific consensus,” they told us.
According to the media and assorted experts, there couldn’t be any questioning of the idea that the coronavirus (or SARS-CoV-2) emerged naturally, and anyone suspecting it might have come from a Chinese lab was an ignoramus, conspiracy theorist, or hater.
These enforcers believed in the power of the words “scientific” and “consensus,” when conjoined and used as a weapon, to shun dissenters and stifle debate.
Advertisement
During much of the pandemic, they were proven right. But the rigid conventional wisdom around the question of the origins of the virus has broken up, and evidence pointing to a lab leak is finally getting the serious consideration it deserves.
Over the weekend, a Wall Street Journal report underlined the foolishness of the old conformity. The report noted that according to U.S. intelligence, three researchers from the Wuhan Institute of Virology fell ill and went to the hospital in November 2019, right around the time the virus is believed to have begun spreading in the city.
About two weeks ago, 18 highly respected scientists wrote to Science Magazine that “we must take hypotheses about both natural and laboratory spillovers seriously.”
And no less an authority than Dr. Anthony Fauci, the very talisman of science for roughly half the country, has now reversed himself and no longer rules out the lab theory.
The science writer Nicholas Wade wrote a long article at Medium earlier this month that was a breakthrough in the debate. He noted that a letter in The Lancet in February 2020 and another letter in Nature Medicine a month later had huge roles in ruling the lab theory out of bounds, even though the missives were premature or otherwise flawed.
The media nonetheless referred constantly to the letters to insist that the scientists had spoken. In much of the press, the Wuhan-lab theory was taken about as seriously as the Chinese claim that the virus might have escaped from a lab at a military base in Maryland.
Advertisement
The orthodoxy, though, hasn’t been able to withstand the weight of counter-evidence.
If the coronavirus jumped naturally from bats to another animal to humans, then there should be some indication of that. But, as Wade points out, no one has found the original bat population or an intermediate species, whereas we found plenty of evidence when other coronaviruses, SARS and MERS, leapt from bats to humans.
Likewise, the caves where the bats are thought to have been infected with the virus are about 1,000 miles from Wuhan, while the lab in the city was conducting dangerous coronavirus research — and probably with inadequate security precautions.
It’s not as though a lab leak is a scenario out of science fiction. Wade notes it is dismayingly common: “The smallpox virus escaped three times from labs in England in the 1960s and 1970s, causing 80 cases and three deaths. Dangerous viruses have leaked out of labs almost every year since. Coming to more recent times, the [SARS] virus has proved a true escape artist, leaking from laboratories in Singapore, Taiwan, and no less than four times from the Chinese National Institute of Virology in Beijing.”
Advertisement
Of course, the Chinese could help the cause of determining the origins of a virus that has created so much suffering and dislocation by not acting as if they had something to hide. Instead, they have been about as forthcoming about the Wuhan lab as they have about their activities in the Xinjiang region, site of the Uyghur genocide. The lab hasn’t shared its safety logs or other records, and no one should expect it to do so anytime soon.
None of this is dispositive. Both the natural and lab theories depend on guesswork. But one theory is now more plausible than the other, and it is the one that was showered with scorn by people who sheathed their advocacy in science — and ignored everything to the contrary.
Advertisement
© 2021 by King Features SyndicateGovernor Kay Ivey (R., Ala.) in Montgomery, Ala., May 15, 2019 (Office of the Governor State of Alabama/Handout via Reuters)
Lawmakers in the Alabama state senate have unanimously approved the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, a popular piece of pro-life legislation that requires doctors to provide appropriate medical care to newborn infants who survive an abortion procedure.
In the May 17 vote, the bill received not only unanimous support but also the votes of several Democratic state senators. According to an Alabama Daily News reporter, one such lawmaker, Democrat Linda Coleman, described the born-alive bill as an effort to protect newborn babies, saying it is not an abortion bill but rather a right-to-life bill.
Advertisement
The born-alive bill has already passed the Alabama House of Representatives with overwhelming support. Republican governor Kay Ivey is expected to sign the bill into law.
Meanwhile, earlier this month, the North Carolina state senate passed its own version of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act on a party-line vote. The bill, S.B. 405, is still under consideration in the North Carolina House of Representatives but it is likely to pass, as Republicans hold a commanding majority in the lower chamber.
During the 2019 legislative session, both chambers of the North Carolina General Assembly passed the born-alive bill, but Democratic governor Roy Cooper went on to veto it. Cooper described the bill as “unnecessary interference between doctors and their patients,” even though the law does not place any restrictions on abortion procedures or limit a woman’s ability to obtain an abortion.
Republican lawmakers in North Carolina’s state senate successfully overturned Cooper’s veto, but the veto override failed in the state house. If the General Assembly succeeds in this renewed effort to pass the legislation, Cooper is likely to veto it again on similar grounds.
This is the third consecutive legislative session during which Republican lawmakers across the country and at the federal level have attempted to enact born-alive measures, an increasingly popular type of pro-life legislation.
Earlier this year, for instance, South Dakota enacted a born-alive law with the support of GOP governor Kristi Noem, and according to her office, the policy has yet to face a legal challenge from abortion-rights activists.
Opponents of the federal born-alive bill and its state-level iterations typically insist, as Cooper did in 2019, that these laws infringe on women’s rights, despite the fact that the law’s terms require only that doctors care for a newborn after a failed abortion procedure, which evidently has no effect on a woman’s health-care options.
Advertisement
Other opponents suggest that born-alive bills are unnecessary because killing newborn infants is already illegal. That much is true, to be sure. But it is not presently illegal for a doctor to neglect an infant who survives an abortion, an infant who was intended for death just moments earlier. In fact, the slate of born-alive bills cropping up over the last few years came in direct response to a Democratic governor, himself a physician, saying that doctors ought to be allowed to do just that.
Finally, opponents of born-alive bills insist that the laws are unnecessary because infants never survive abortion procedures. Abortionist Kermit Gosnell — currently serving life in prison in part for using scissors to sever the spinal columns of infants he delivered alive in modified abortion procedures — might beg to differ. So, too, might Gianna Jessen and Melissa Ohden, two pro-life advocates who survived attempted abortion procedures.Lapid's coalition is made up of parties from the left and right wings of the political spectrum, as well as an Arab political party.Tilda Swinton in Doctor Strange. (Marvel Studios)
I wrote yesterday about the possibility that Marvel Studios, long perched atop the box office, faces a number of headwinds — interrupted momentum, exhausted creative possibilities, troubles with the Chinese market, and others — that might mean its brand has peaked. In the course of doing so, I mentioned that Marvel’s blatant attempt to tailor some of its new releases to the Chinese market had precedent in some of the creative decisions about some of its prior films, including 2016’s Dr. Strange. That movie changed the ethnicity of the Ancient One, a key character, from Tibetan to “Celtic,” with Tilda Swinton in the starring role. Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige now claims to be aware that this was a mistake . . . because it was insufficiently woke:
Swinton’s casting, after ten years of films with next to no Asian representation, was especially vexing, since the film still placed her character in Nepal, a South Asian country. Marvel initially claimed it had chosen Swinton to prevent the character from fulfilling an Asian stereotype. Fans called bullshit. Five years later, Marvel head Kevin Feige doesn’t argue. “We thought we were being so smart and so cutting-edge,” he told me in a Zoom interview. “We’re not going to do the cliché of the wizened, old, wise Asian man. But it was a wake-up call to say, ‘Well, wait a minute, is there any other way to figure it out? Is there any other way to both not fall into the cliché and cast an Asian actor?’ And the answer to that, of course, is yes.”
It’s convenient, given current American cultural conditions, for Feige to make an act of contrition on these grounds. But there is evidence that there was more to it than this. C. Robert Cargill, one of the screenwriters of Dr. Strange, admitted as much:
The Ancient One was a racist stereotype who comes from a region of the world that is in a very weird political place. He originates from Tibet, so if you acknowledge that Tibet is a place and that he’s Tibetan, you risk alienating one billion people who think that that’s bulls**t and risk the Chinese government going, ‘Hey, you know one of the biggest film-watching countries in the world? We’re not going to show your movie because you decided to get political.’ If we decide to go the other way and cater to China in particular and have him be in Tibet… if you think it’s a good idea to cast a Chinese actress as a Tibetan character, you are out of your damn fool mind and have no idea what the f**k you’re talking about.”
Cargill also asserts that the character’s racist history, and Marvel’s desire to avoid caricature, played a role. Maybe so. But Feige, in wanting to emphasize insufficient wokeness as opposed to the self-censorship imposed by consideration of the Chinese market, is still being somewhat disingenuous, preferring to blame his own prejudice instead of that of the market he is trying to cater to. And he is being so in a way that may augur ill for the future of Marvel Studios.One further thought on Bob Dylan that didn’t fit in my front-page piece on his 80th birthday is the way in which listeners approach Dylan. It is ironic that Dylan began as a youth-culture icon, because to people coming later to his music, he can be forbidding. Everything about his music — the snide voice, the density of the lyrics, the long attention span demanded by his songs, the deeper themes — runs counter to how young people of my generation (Gen X), let alone young people of later generations, have been conditioned to consume music. That makes him an acquired taste. But because Dylan is popularly associated with the political Left, young people of a left-leaning bent tend to feel somewhat naturally obligated to like Dylan (or at least give him a listen), while young people of a right-leaning bent tend to feel as if they ought to reject him. I had little enough use, myself, for Dylan’s music until I was in my mid 30s. Getting past the image and into the deeper waters is where Dylan is best encountered.
Dan McLaughlin is a senior writer at National Review Online . @baseballcrankBob Dylan in 1991 (Xavier Badosa/Wikimedia Commons)
As the Boomers’ most revered singer-songwriter turns 80, it’s amusing to look back at how he rejected the Flower Children.
As the children of the Sixties tried to crown Bob Dylan their poet laureate, he refused. “I think of myself more as a song and dance man, y’know,” he said in 1965. Dylan was the rare celebrity who downplayed the worshipful titles offered him — poet, visionary, and especially spokesman for a generation. After his early 20s, he carried no banners, he led no movements, and he scoffed at all attempts to exaggerate his importance. He didn’t even play Woodstock, although he lived there. Dylan barely took notice of the upheaval around him, much of which was choreographed to a soundtrack he created, like a stone-faced silent-film star who strolls through mayhem with his nose in a book.
Advertisement
Dylan today turns 80, the most notable of the great rockers to do so (though John Lennon was born seven months earlier). Looking back, it’s amusing how completely he has defeated all efforts to define him, and it’s hilarious that, based on only a handful of songs in his huge catalog, Dylan accidentally created the template for the socially engaged progressive celebrity. Today a hack comic like Jimmy Kimmel offers more grandstanding about politics in a single week than Dylan did in his entire career. (But then, Dylan has talent.) While America was engulfed in civil rights, Dylan was immersed in the Civil War. When hippies surrounded his house in upstate New York begging for guidance, he booted them off, then moved to Malibu so he could be alone, abandoning his would-be flock.
In 60-plus years of interviews, Dylan has swatted down all efforts to take him seriously with deadpan gnomic utterances. Asked in a December 1965 press conference, “What poets do you dig?” he gave the following answer: “Rimbaud, I guess; W. C. Fields; the family, you know, the trapeze family in the circus; Smokey Robinson; Allen Ginsberg; Charlie Rich — he’s a good poet.” (That’s another difference between Dylan and Jimmy Kimmel: Dylan is funny.)
Advertisement
Dylan’s early political works were closely linked to his love life. He was hit with a coup de foudre when, at 20 years old, he met political activist Suze Rotolo in summer 1961, and in the two-and-a-half years they dated he wrote most of his overtly political songs: “The Death of Emmett Till,” “Oxford Town” (about University of Mississippi desegregation), “Talkin’ John Birch Society Blues,” “The Lonesome Death of Hattie Carroll,” “Masters of War,” “Blowin’ in the Wind,” and “The Times They Are a-Changin’.” In 1963, he performed at the August 28 March on Washington whose centerpiece was Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream Speech.” Playing “Blowin’ in the Wind,” his first hit (as sung by Peter, Paul and Mary in a cover version that reached No. 1 in the middle of 1963), he cautioned an early audience, “This here ain’t a protest song or anything like that, ‘cause I don’t write protest songs . . . I’m just writing it as something to be said, for somebody, by somebody.” One of the reasons that song has endured is that it’s so vague as to be broadly applicable; Dylan never did write a song about the antiwar movement to compare to Neil Young’s “Ohio” or John Lennon’s “Give Peace a Chance.”
By the end of 1963, Rotolo had aborted the baby she had conceived with Dylan, and she moved out of his apartment; they would split for good early the following year. At the same time, he was unplugging from progressive politics. In December 1963, just three weeks after President Kennedy’s assassination, he startled his audience when he said, of Lee Harvey Oswald, “I saw some of myself in him.” (This was in the context of saying, “I don’t see why anybody can’t go to Cuba.”) In the same speech he also said, “There’s no black and white, Left and Right to me anymore, there’s only up and down, and down is very close to the ground, and I’m trying to go up without thinking about anything trivial such as politics.”
Advertisement
Two years later, Dylan formalized his rupture with his early folkie-activist career when he plugged in his guitar at the Newport Jazz Festival. That signaled the end of the folk-rock movement, and, from age 24, Dylan hardly ever strived for left-wing political “relevance” again, though his 1975 protest song “Hurricane” is a notable exception. Dispensing almost entirely with earnest lyrics about injustice, Dylan switched modes into dazzling psychedelic wordplay in his greatest Sixties albums, Bringing It All Back Home, Highway 61 Revisited (both 1965) and Blonde on Blonde (1966). “Maggie’s Farm,” from the first of those electrified and electrifying albums, was a typically Delphic declaration of independence from the righteous-folkie movement, reveling in nonsense over protest. The word collages of “Subterranean Homesick Blues,” “Like a Rolling Stone,” and “Tombstone Blues” marked a new level of achievement in pop lyrics, and they had nothing to do with the student movements that would shortly redefine youth.
It is because of these nonpolitical songs, and his increasingly heartfelt romantic efforts (some of which also blended in surreal elements, such as “Visions of Johanna”), culminating in the beautiful ache of his 1975 masterpiece Blood on the Tracks, that Dylan earned a permanent place among the first rank of rock singer-songwriters. If he had stuck with his early style, Dylan today might be a mere niche artist, like Pete Seeger or his idol Woody Guthrie, the kind of singer no one listens to except your kooky beret-wearing uncle.(Stock image: Lisa5201/Getty Images)
A brave young woman tells how adoption saved her life.
May is national foster-care month, and a big word for anyone who knows anything about foster care is “reunification.” Reunification is a beautiful thought and goal, if possible. The organization Safe Families is all about people (of faith, typically) stepping in and helping a family out for a short term, as a mother or mother and father need a respite. This is a relationship that is not adoption-minded but simply about keeping a family together.
Advertisement
The foster-care system is another story. Here reunification reigns, to a fault. I held in my arms recently a baby who is just so happy, loved in a foster family who seemingly by Providence met this child when he needed them (and they were just certified to foster). But the fate of this boy who needs a forever family is going to be unclear for a long time. While it is, of course, ideal for a child to be raised by his biological mother and father, sometimes that isn’t possible. Drug abuse wrecks lives. In situations where the father isn’t in the picture, or the father is father to multiple children with another woman or women, a baby isn’t facing a promising situation for flourishing.
Sarah Zagorski, now 31, was once a child in the foster-care system. She spent time with a loving couple but, for the sake of reunification, was sent back to her mother and siblings, to eat insects, for food, off the floor. Her mother wanted to provide, but poverty, abuse, and mental illness made it impossible. Sarah recently wrote her story for the first time, for Focus on the Family, remembering that she reentered “a familial war zone.” She had had all kinds of dreams of a loving home with her siblings playing together. The reality was different: “Instead of a room for myself, I went to sleep on a frameless mattress stained with urine. Rather than playing with my sisters, the girls in my family hid in our bathroom from our abusers. The slide given to my family by my foster parents became a target for knife-throwing practice, and my mother was unable to stop it.”
Advertisement
It took almost eight years for her adoptive parents to be able to give her safety and stability. Sarah was confused as a child, as it seemed no one truly loved her. “Why didn’t you come to get me?” she would later ask her foster mother.
Advertisement
Her foster parents, who became her parents, saved her life, she’s come to realize. One of her blood sisters overdosed on drugs and died. That could have been her, had she not been released from the prison of poverty, abuse, and mental illness. Zagorski is an advocate for foster care and adoption, and a champion of foster parents, because her own parents had the courage to step up to the plate, knowing that there were children who needed love, but also knowing that it would be a grueling process. They knew, she writes, that she could have all kinds of psychological problems because of the trauma she had experienced at such an early age. (She was just about older than a toddler when she was finally adopted in 1999.) But they were Christians who knew that they were expected to care for orphans. And so they did with joy. And so, she reflects: “My story didn’t end in drug addiction, exploitation, or suicide because foster care provided me the support I would need for a lifetime.”
We live in a culture that celebrates individual autonomy, and in the shadows are all kinds of stories of the damage that does. Birth mothers who have their children in trying circumstances and choose adoption are heroines. That’s true love — to be willing to sacrifice for the best for your child. We need to celebrate mothers who make that choice. We need to make it a choice that is known. Darcy Olsen, president of Gen Justice, based in Arizona, has seen in her own life the damage that meth addiction can mean for a child who is returned to his birthmother; one of the children she has fostered over the years died in the process of reunification. Sometimes reunification is the worst possible outcome for a child, especially if serious drugs and abuse are involved.
Advertisement
We’re awaiting a Supreme Court decision that involves a travesty — Philadelphia’s decision to sever ties with Catholic Social Services there. They want Catholic principles about family to be thrown out, even though some birthmothers wouldn’t mind their children being raised in an environment where all kinds of sexual-identity confusions aren’t the rage. One of the fundamental things we are losing today is a robust pluralism. Even Catholic beliefs ought to be defended and welcome.
And why shouldn’t they be, when they motivate a most needed service? Over 400,000 children are in foster care in the United States, and we don’t even fully know the impact that COVID-19 has had on children in vulnerable situations. The coronavirus pandemic has been difficult enough for those of us in the best of situations, how about the child in foster care, suffering the devastating hardship of being separated from the love of a family? We’re living in a time when differences about fundamentals — adult arguments that are not going to get resolved tomorrow or maybe even in our lifetimes — are hurting the most vulnerable children. The good of these children should be common ground for us. And that’s going to require more choices, not fewer. Children need better than we’re offering. May Sarah’s story be a rallying cry for them.
This column is based on one available through Andrews McMeel Universal’s Newspaper Enterprise Association.Book cover via Amazon; Detail of Saint Paul Preaching in Athens, after Raphael, c. 1517-20, by Marcantonio Raimondi. (Amazon; Metropolitan Museum of Art/Open Access)
In Bullies and Saints, Australian scholar John Dickson practices self-criticism the right way.
John Dickson, Bullies and Saints: An Honest Look at the Good and Evil of Christian History (Zondervan, 352 pp., $29.99)
In the Age of Woke, any criticism of our cherished institutions (national or otherwise) can provide fodder to those trying to burn them down. The reflex to circle the wagons, draw our line in the sand, and hunker down for the long haul is understandable as the “Christian consensus” crumbles with great rapidity in the West.
Advertisement
But constructive criticism is certainly better than mindless destruction, particularly when it comes from a friend. Australian scholar John Dickson, distinguished fellow at Ridley College Melbourne, is just such a critic. A devout Christian of the Anglican persuasion, with a doctorate in ancient history and a gift for engaging with skeptics, he is known for Is Jesus History? and other slender volumes (some 200 pages each) on the early church and the Bible. His latest book, Bullies and Saints: An Honest Look at the Good and Evil of Christian History, is his most ambitious foray to date.
Can we say anything new about the best and worst of Christianity? After all, the 9/11 attacks and ensuing wars in the Middle East revived a generally dormant debate over the Crusades and the Inquisition, and that debate frequently spilled over into these pages, but even the New Atheists are receding into the shadows. Haven’t we done this already?
Advertisement
Dickson, indeed, finds quite a bit to say. Bullies and Saints is both a sweeping and an episodic history. He dismantles the myth of the Dark Ages and the exaggeration of the Inquisition as effortlessly as he reframes the alleged war between science and religion and the wars of religion (e.g., the Thirty Years’ War and, in Northern Ireland, the Troubles). Unlike many Western historians, he also reserves special attention for the Byzantine and Orthodox experience.
He explores the asset side of the Christian ledger. “I venture to say that a gifted senior student in the School of Tours in the year 800 could give a modern English-speaking university student a run for their money in terms of grammar and syntax, fluency in a second language, the rules of formal logic, rhetoric, poetry, and even observational astronomy,” he writes. We learn of Augustine of Hippo’s efforts to free slaves, Basil of Caesarea’s invention of the hospital, and the Apostle Paul’s aid program in Judea.
There are, obviously, items on the liabilities side of this ledger. Bullies and Saints is no exercise in whataboutism. Though in conservative circles the Crusades are often portrayed as a defensive war against an expansionist Islam, Dickson is less than impressed with this argument. Focusing on the massacre of the al-Aqsa mosque in 1099 (rather than on the exaggerated accounts of atrocities in Greater Jerusalem), he finds reason to apologize explicitly for the sins of his fathers. (Fans of the Rodney Stark, cited by Dickson in this book and others, may find his apology unnecessary.) Instances where imperial and priestly powers merged and joined forces draw particular scrutiny. Catholic devotees of canonized saints may have a few bones to pick with the text: Ambrose, the fourth-century bishop of Milan, is described as the prototypical political priest, and Dickson tempers his generally favorable portrait of Augustine with disappointment over the way “just war” theory was used to justify holy war.
This is a rich book of careful and discerning scholarship. As an Anglican from Australia, Dickson offers a refreshing take on a subject that far too easily slides into the well-worn contours of contemporary political debate in the United States. His conclusion, ultimately, is optimistic: “Christ’s melody remains beautiful — dare I say unique. And when Christians perform it, they leave an indelible mark on the world.”Johanna Friend, 6, (right) and McKenna Friend, 5, look in the window of the American Girl store at The Grove mall in Los Angeles, Calif., in 2013. (Lucy Nicholson/Reuters)
Timeless historical tales, and their accompanying dolls, formed a generation of American girls.
Poor Jordan. My over-enthusiastic nine-year-old self was trying to help out backstage, and in my eagerness, I cracked this set-crew member over the head with a lantern during a set change. Despite this, the play was a smashing success, smiled at by parents and thoroughly enjoyed by children. There was Josefina, the lead character; her aunt, Tia Magdalena; her pet goat, Sombrita; and even a nasty rattlesnake (played by my brother). These and other characters made up the cast of that 2005 play I directed, based on the American Girl Josefina series.
Advertisement
Josefina was but one in a group of historical-book series (and their accompanying, expensive, 18-inch dolls) adored by middle-school girls since they first became available in the mid ’80s. Other American Girls included Samantha, an orphan living with her grandmother in turn-of-the-century New York City; Kit, growing up in Depression-era Cincinnati; and Kaya, from the Nez Perce Indian tribe. Growing up — and there are probably many who can relate — these characters were very real to me, and many of the adventures, lessons, and historical facts in their stories have stayed with me over the years.
This year marks American Girl’s 35th anniversary. Originally produced by The Pleasant Company, the dolls and their respective books were bought by Mattel in 1998. American Girl grew in popularity, expanding to include more historical dolls and books, the Bitty Baby doll line, a magazine for middle-school girls, and all manner of advice and craft books. To maintain the company’s popularity and expand interest, in 2001, American Girl began offering a “Girl of the Year” doll and book. These books feature contemporary girls and their stories. While there certainly can be merit in telling contemporary stories, the timeless nature of the historical books is worth noting and praising.
Advertisement
Solid, simple stories, the historical tales of Kaya, Molly, Kit, Kirsten, Samantha, Felicity, Addy, and Josefina all follow a pattern: Each series had six books in which readers meet the girl, the girl learns a lesson, has a birthday, saves the day, and so on. Each individual book ended with a short historical section with interesting details about the character’s era. Well-researched and accompanied by artwork and other images, these few pages were generally clear and unbiased.
Compact and full of lovely detail, the books welcomed readers into the worlds of the different girls, allowing them to experience her joys and sorrows. The books were relatable, showing, as the book description says: “What was it like to be a girl long ago? The American Girls Collection takes you inside the worlds of girls who lived during exciting times in the past. As you read their stories, you can imagine how different life was back then. But you’ll also discover that their feelings, ideas, and dreams are just like yours.”
Advertisement
Comparatively speaking, the books coming out of American Girl today lack the charm and adventure of the originals. Blaire struggles with lactose intolerance. Saige is upset because the school art program was shut down. Kailey is determined to save tide pools. Some of the modern girls deal with significant issues, such as Joss, who’s deaf in one ear; Chrissa, who has serious bully trouble at school; and Gabriela, who has a speech impediment. These are concerns for plenty of girls, and to give them a friend for that journey, especially at such a formative age, can be helpful. A note of caution, though: These books are a product of their times, and while they are generally unobjectionable, some have started diving into the LGBT world.
It also has been sad to see the accusations leveled at American Girl for its supposed lack of diversity among the dolls and books. While having dolls of all different skin tones is perfectly reasonable, and indeed even praiseworthy, making race a point of contention is unhelpful. Focusing on this rather than “the content of their character” sends young girls the wrong message. Remember that aforementioned quote about the historical dolls? “You’ll also discover that their feelings, ideas, and dreams are just like yours.”
Advertisement
The original book characters dealt with serious hardships, and the authors didn’t shy away from difficult topics. These ranged from Kirsten losing her best friend to cholera to Addy escaping slavery (in a particularly well-written, intense chapter). Kit’s dad loses his job during the Depression. Molly’s dad is deployed overseas during World War II. Though the point was never belabored, it was apparent they went to church (or, in Kaya’s case, talked about their ancestors and Native American origin stories), and faith (ranging from Catholic to Protestant to Jewish) had at least some role in their lives. Importantly, these girls were usually surrounded by strong older women. Mothers, aunts, grandmothers, and sisters fill the stories. They aren’t all perfect characters, but the girls have important, helpful women in their lives whom they can look up to.
Those girls may have been from different eras, but today’s eight- to twelve-year-olds certainly would relate to their everyday trials. Spunky and full of life, our historical characters still had their faults. Molly embarrasses her brother in front of the girl he likes in revenge for his ruining her Halloween candy — and then is caught by her mom and made to clean up and apologize. Kaya disobeys her father by racing her horse when she’s supposed to be watching her brothers — and is then punished by the Whipping Woman. The punishments are just, and the girls often then have conversations about their transgression with a parent or other elder, receiving wisdom on how to learn from and move on after their mistake.
American Girl recently announced that, as part of the 35th-anniversary celebration, it’s bringing back the original historical dolls and their books for a short time. This is encouraging, and I hope they will continue to recognize the value of these timeless tales and their important impact on America’s girls.(Mike Segar/Reuters)
A new book gives practical advice to students and parents.
Beth Akers’s Making College Pay gives away a lot in its title. There are plenty of reasons people go to college — a multi-year party at the onset of young adulthood, a route to self-fulfillment, a chance to learn just for the sake of learning. But most also expect college to have some financial payoff, and that’s where Akers’s book comes in.
Advertisement
This is a handy, brief, readable guide to selecting a college worth the cost. It’s directed toward students, though moms and dads might be more likely to realize the gravity of the college decision and the importance of its financial dimension. (Akers describes wandering into her own college choice pretty cluelessly, which is how I remember making my decision as well.)
The book carefully wades through each layer of the process, starting with whether it’s worthwhile to go to college at all. The answer is yes, probably, but with some caveats.
Scientifically, it’s hard to study how much college pays off. People who go to college are different from those who don’t even before college starts; they tend to have higher grades and test scores in high school, wealthier and better-connected parents, and so on and so forth. When college grads then go on to make more money than non-grads — a seven-figure gap, by some estimates — it’s difficult to sort out how much of the difference stems from college itself, and how much stems from these preexisting advantages.
Advertisement
Regardless, the relevant research points to a big payoff on average, which makes sense given how many high-paying jobs just outright require college degrees. Whether so many jobs should require degrees is, of course, another question.
And no, all that evil student debt doesn’t cancel out the higher earnings, at least not for the typical student. An economist, Akers is one of the most prominent voices in the student-debt debate, and in this book she lays out some of the most important facts about how college financing works.
The sky-high “sticker prices” that colleges purport to charge are reduced through financial aid, especially for lower-income students (though, frustratingly, you won’t know how much a college will actually cost you until after you apply). The vast majority of borrowers have affordable payments after they graduate. Thanks to the federal government’s involvement, student loans have low interest rates — so low, in fact, that even if you don’t have to borrow, it might be a smart move to take out a loan anyway and put the extra money toward a good investment, where it should grow in size faster than your debt will. In the event that you do have trouble paying off your loans, the government offers various “income-based repayment” options that guarantee your payments will never exceed a reasonable percentage of your disposable income, and that your debt will be forgiven after you make payments for a set number of years.
So, college is a worthwhile endeavor — with some very important caveats, which Akers discusses in a chapter called “Why College Sometimes Doesn’t Pay.” A shockingly high proportion of students fail to graduate in a reasonable amount of time — perhaps 40 percent, though this number varies across different types of colleges and between full- and part-time students — and failing to get a degree reduces the value of a college education dramatically. Students who do graduate often take more than four years, which increases the cost of their education and decreases the amount of time they spend in the work force. And there are some college programs whose graduates out-earn the typical high-school grad barely or not at all. All of this will be an important reality check for kids who might not be a great fit for college, or who are considering majors that simply don’t pay.
Advertisement
For the others, there’s the question of which school and program to attend. As Akers spells out, kids entering college today have incredibly powerful tools at their disposal for moneyballing their options. There have long been college rankings such as the ones offered by U.S. News and World Report, but now a potential student can see actual financial outcomes for students who graduated from a given college, and even for the subset of those graduates who chose the specific major he’s considering.
Here Akers does a great service walking readers through the basic process of comparing options. The most important thing is to check out the data available on each of your serious possibilities — colleges you have a shot of getting into, based on your grades and test scores, and that you would be willing to attend. The key source here is the government’s College Scorecard, though Akers provides an entire appendix listing other helpful resources and average salaries by field of study.
Advertisement
Start with the graduation rate, she recommends, because a college experience isn’t too valuable without the credential it’s supposed to lead to — and don’t blithely assume you’ll beat the odds if that rate is low. Also check out the typical earnings of graduates, both for the college as a whole and for your potential majors. You can get a rough estimate of your expected price too, though, again, you won’t know your exact financial-aid package until after you’ve applied.
With all that info in hand, you can get a general sense of where each path leads, and with some basic math you can see how much extra income your credential could earn you. This is more than most kids do, but it offers immense benefits.
Akers also spends some time discussing some new developments in the higher-ed marketplace. Some colleges are now offering “income-share agreements,” in which students pay a percentage of their post-graduation income to the college — meaning the college itself takes on some of the risk that the student’s education won’t pay off. There are also some new programs that teach skills quickly, such as coding boot camps and “competency based” options that can give you credit for what you already learned elsewhere. These are important not only to the students who might benefit today, but also to the broader world of higher ed, because they represent ways of making learning more affordable in the future.
We politics junkies have been consumed lately with the question of what the government should do about student loans. In Making College Pay, Akers steps back from that debate to tell us how the current higher-ed system works and how students can navigate it. Her advice is invaluable, and students and parents should take heed.Image from the Pentagon’s “Gimbal” video. (ABC News/Screengrab via YouTube)
The possibility should not be so quickly dismissed.
After reading Andrew Follett’s article explaining why you shouldn’t worry about all of the UFOs in the news because videos of them “all have obvious potential terrestrial explanations,” let’s just say I had a few questions. I’ve lost track of the number of people who sent it to me on social media, and Follett and I wound up getting into a brief Twitter discussion of the subject. Why me? Well, for better or worse, I’ve become “the UFO guy” at the network where I normally publish my articles, and I’ll confess to having been somewhat obsessed with the subject over the years.
Advertisement
I have closely followed the ongoing Pentagon UFO stories (or UAP, unidentified aerial phenomena, as we’re supposed to call them today) ever since the New York Times dropped its bombshell article revealing the existence of the Pentagon’s Advanced Aerospace Threat Identification Program (AATIP) in December 2017. I’ve written extensively on the subject and try to keep my finger on the pulse of this saga. So I welcome the opportunity to respond to some of Follett’s observations.
Allow me to say up-front that I am not here to claim in any way that the bizarre craft being observed in our skies (and oceans and low-earth orbit) by military personnel — along with civilian aviators, elected officials, law-enforcement officers, and drunkards standing in cow fields — are “dem aliens.” (That’s the loving term humorously used by those in the ufology community.) There is, to my knowledge, no evidence that’s been made available to the public that would definitively prove or even persuasively suggest the existence of any type of extraterrestrial intelligence here on our planet. Whether any governmental or military entities around the world are in possession of such evidence remains an open question.
Advertisement
Having established those caveats, however, I will also say that anyone rather definitively making the claim that the unknown craft are almost certainly not some sort of technosignature of a nonhuman intelligence is offering an equally faulty approach. Follett bases his assessment on the three brief, grainy videos from the USS Nimitz and USS Roosevelt encounters from 2004 and 2014 to 2015, respectively. The provenance of these videos has been confirmed by the Pentagon, and they have been subjected to endless scrutiny since then.
He first describes the actions of the objects observed in the videos, noting that none of the three demonstrate the incredible performance capabilities attributed to them so often. Luis Elizondo, the aforementioned head of AATIP, refers to those capabilities as the Five Observables, including ludicrous speed, non-ballistic maneuvering, and the ability to defy gravity, among others. Follett then goes on to “explain away” the three sightings as a Canadian goose, a misidentified passenger jet, and (perhaps most amazingly) a meteor breaking up as it enters Earth’s atmosphere.
Advertisement
In the spirit of friendly debate, I will agree (as I did during our Twitter discussion) that the brief video clips confirmed by the Pentagon are, absent any other supporting evidence, lacking in depictions of objects engaging in any of the Five Observables. None of the three appear to be traveling at hypersonic speeds or performing wild maneuvers, though the object in the Gimbal video appears to come close to defying gravity while having no wings, rotors, other flight surfaces, exhaust ports, or other visible means of propulsion.
This, however, reveals the main sticking point in my objections to Follett’s premise. I learned through our social-media discussion that the video portion of the three clips in question represented the entirety of his argument. There is far more data to be had, starting with the audio tracks from those videos and the technical details discussed by the pilots. Further, if you listen to the interviews with not only the pilots but the supporting crews in the carrier-battle groups, they collected radar-tracking data on many of these objects. The “tic tac” from the Nimitz encounter, as it was termed by the pilots and most in the ufology community, was first detected on radar at an altitude of as much as 80,000 feet. It then dropped to 20,000 feet until the two F-18s approached, at which point it dropped from there down to the surface of the water (or perhaps under the surface) in less than a second. (That’s asking a lot of a goose or a 737.) Such a rapid acceleration and deceleration should turn any living thing inside to jelly and rip the craft to pieces. Further, the testimony of the pilots involved, while not the same as video or electronic surveillance, is highly instructive and provided by trained observers of the highest order.
Advertisement
As to the alternative explanations offered, I will simply say that we have some very serious, full-time debunkers in ufology circles, with Mick West being one of the more famous ones. These are the same alternate theories they regularly offer; Follett drew from some of West’s material in his argument. Without getting too carried away, I will simply state that I always find these vastly simplified explanations insulting, particularly to our men and women in uniform who have come forward with these reports. On top of the other data available, such debunking theories ask that we accept the assumption that some of our best Top Gun pilots were unable to identify a commercial aircraft, a balloon, or a confused seabird.
Go and watch the interview that Lieutenant Commander Alex Dietrich, one of the pilots who chased down the object in the Nimitz encounter, did with Anderson Cooper. Listen to her description of the tic tac and how the event unfolded. Then come back and tell me that she’s either lying or too incompetent to know a bird when she saw one. Additionally, we are expected to believe that not only the crews of two F/A-18F Super Hornets but the officers and technicians of an entire carrier battle group and the multiple radar systems they employed were unable to figure out that they were looking at a distant 737 that was potentially wandering too close to restricted airspace? Or a bird? Come on.
Those videos are only the tip of the iceberg. There is a mountain of information out there if you want to read more deeply than the headlines you’re suddenly seeing in outlets that have rarely, if ever, touched this subject — or if you want to read more in-depth material than the recent segment from 60 Minutes. There are strange things being seen in our skies. At least 90 percent can be explained by mundane phenomena, but a significant number can’t, and we’ve had a lot of people working on the problem. And that’s where the real mystery lies, with answers potentially awaiting us that could trigger a dramatic shift in humanity’s view of our universe and even ourselves. Or, if nothing else, we’ll find out that the Russians have massively leapfrogged us in technology. Either way, wouldn’t you like to know?Director Chloé Zhao, winner of the award for best picture for Nomadland poses at the press room of the Oscars in Los Angeles, Calif., April 25, 2021. (Chris Pizzello/Reuters)
The Disney-owned studio Searchlight pressured the American magazine Filmmaker to remove a quote from its profile of Chinese director Chloé Zhao because it was critical of China’s authoritarian regime, according to a Hollywood Reporter article published Friday.
Speaking with Filmmaker about the inspiration behind her first feature film, Songs My Brother Taught Me, Zhao said that she identified with the main character — a Native American teenager looking to flee South Dakota’s Pine Ridge Indian Reservation — because she hoped to escape the dictatorial grip of the Chinese Communist Party when she was a child.
Advertisement
“It goes back to when I was a teenager in China, being in a place where there are lies everywhere,” the quote read. “You felt like you were never going to be able to get out. A lot of info I received when I was younger was not true, and I became very rebellious toward my family and my background. I went to England suddenly and relearned my history. Studying political science in a liberal arts college was a way for me to figure out what is real. Arm yourself with information, and then challenge that too.”
Spotlight, and by extension Disney, then demanded the American media outlet omit Zhao’s testimony, seemingly appeasing its Chinese business partners in order to preserve its access to the lucrative Chinese consumer market.
Advertisement
The quote was removed from Filmmaker’s website, but the archived versions resurfaced in China after Zhao was awarded the best director win at the Golden Globes ceremony. In response, Chinese officials cancelled the local release of Zhao’s latest film Nomadland in April and buried the incident by eliminating all traces of her mention on the internet, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Through its infamous firewall and other information restrictions, China has obscured Zhao’s popularity and accolades from the public, fully censoring the Oscars in which she received multiple academy awards for her work on Nomadland.
Disney received backlash last year for producing the live-action remake of the children’s classic Mulan in the Xinjiang region of China, where the Uighur Muslim minorities have been brutally oppressed and held in detainment camps by the CCP in a way that legally constitutes genocide.
The entertainment conglomerate has made an concerted effort to enforce stricter diversity and inclusion standards within the company, mandating employee training that teaches that the U.S. was founded on “systemic racism” and asks participants to complete an “white privilege checklist.”
Disney, however, has so far dedicated little attention or air time to the systemic racism and human rights violations China is perpetrating against religious and ethnic groups in Xinjiang and Hong Kong dissidents.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Image from the Pentagon’s “Gimbal” video. (ABC News/Screengrab via YouTube)
The videos disclosed so far all have obvious potential terrestrial explanations.
Political figures ranging from Barack Obama to Tucker Carlson all seem to think UFOs may pose a serious threat to national security, but likely explanations for recent UFO sightings are far less out-of-this-world.
A remarkable number of news outlets are running stories about the expected release of the Pentagon’s Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force report to the Senate next month. A recent 60 Minutes piece claimed UFOs were spotted in restricted U.S. airspace “every day for at least a couple years.”
Advertisement
When asked about UFOs on CBS’s The Late Late Show on Monday, former president Barack Obama admitted he had looked into the subject while in office. “We can’t explain how [UFOs] move, their trajectory,” he claimed. “They did not have an easily explainable pattern.” Democrats are modestly more likely than Republicans to believe in UFOs, but belief in them is a bipartisan phenomenon.
Fox News host Tucker Carlson aired similar concerns. “The Pentagon admits it doesn’t know what in the world this is. That’s all you need to know,” he told viewers. He cited examples of UFO sightings by the Navy and opined, “From a national-security perspective, [UFOs are] a very big problem.” (Disclosure: I regularly wrote articles about UFOs and the potential for extraterrestrial life when I worked for Carlson as a science reporter at The Daily Caller.)
What much of the recent news coverage fails to mention is that “Unidentified Flying Object” does not mean either “alien spacecraft” or even “extremely advanced drone.” And the videos disclosed so far all have obvious potential terrestrial explanations.
Advertisement
The renewed interest in UFOs is primarily driven by three grainy, black-and-white, infrared videos. The Navy confirmed that the videos — titled “GoFast,” “FLIR,” and “Gimbal” — captured UFO encounters by jets from the aircraft carriers USS Nimitz and USS Theodore Roosevelt.
Carlson’s coverage of the “GoFast” video expressly claims it shows “technologies that are far beyond our current understanding of aerodynamics” and reveals “things that are maneuvering in ways that no aircraft that we are currently aware of have the capability to.” He adds that the UFOs “have no flight surfaces, no wing or anything approaching a wing . . . and no propulsion, so infrared doesn’t pick up any jet trail or rocket exhaust.”
The video shows a small object apparently moving low across the water. However, the UFO was almost certainly a seabird or balloon distorted by parallax. Parallax is an effect that makes an object close to an observer, but filmed against a more distant background, seem to speed up as the camera moves. Data from the Navy camera clearly indicates the unidentified object had a wingspan of about four to seven feet in diameter, roughly the wingspan of a Canadian Goose, and flew at an altitude of 8,000 feet, well below the 29,000 feet maximum altitude of the bird. Alternatively, the Department of Defense description of the object expressly mentions a balloon (perhaps a weather balloon) as a possible explanation in the paperwork that accompanied the release of the video.
If it flies like a duck, is the size of a duck, and quacks like a duck . . . it probably isn’t an alien spaceship or ultra-advanced drone from a foreign power. But headlines such as “U.S. Navy Pilot Spots UFO” generate more clicks than “Pilot Sees Goose on Infrared Camera.”
Advertisement
The “FLIR” video was shot on an infrared camera by a USS Nimitz aircraft and seems to just show a passenger plane from a distance. The object’s unusual motion is easily explained by the camera repeatedly zooming in and out and switching between viewing modes.
The “Gimbal” video shows a hot metal object traveling in a straight line against the wind. Commentary from the fighter pilots in the video suggests there were multiple objects off-screen traveling in the same direction. One likely explanation is a meteor breaking up, or pieces of space junk burning up, in Earth’s atmosphere. The odd rotation of the object is almost certainly a product of the motion of the gimbal camera itself.
Another recent sighting involved UFOs that allegedly “harassed” the Navy’s Arleigh Burke-class destroyer USS Russell off the coast of California. They were almost certainly just conventional aircraft filmed with an out-of-focus camera. The objects blinked in the same pattern as a Boeing 737, and the naval ship was directly under an air route for planes flying into Los Angeles from Asia. The high alleged speeds and turn rates of the objects reported by some witnesses are not shown in the video, but could easily be explained by parallax.
Advertisement
So why hasn’t the military given any of these explanations?
Well, the Department of Defense’s policy is to report even “incursions that are initially reported as UAP [Unidentified Aerial Phenomena] when the observer cannot immediately [emphasis added] identify what he or she is observing.” It is entirely possible that these examples were all identified after the initial report, but still bureaucratically classified as UAPs. The Pentagon has confirmed the footage is real, but has said nothing about the content of the footage.
The military may not want to bother going on the record stating an object is actually a goose, balloon, plane, or meteor. The military also may wish to let the media frenzy continue in order to draw more attention to the technically impressive infrared-imaging technology revealed by the videos, as a subtle warning message to adversarial nations.
Also, the U.S. government has a long history of letting the public imagination run wild with extraterrestrial conspiracy theories to divert attention from classified projects or accidents. The DOD only confirmed the videos’ authenticity because of a stunning number of Freedom of Information Act requests regarding the leaked videos; providing any additional clarification might risk revealing military secrets.
In the 1950s and ’60s, the Air Force and CIA often intentionally called sightings of highly secret U-2 spy planes “UFOs” to hide the true nature of the aircraft. It helped that when the planes’ original silver paint reflected sunlight, they took on an otherworldly, fiery appearance. A CIA official who worked on the U-2 and SR-71 Blackbird spy plane project later attributed over half of all UFO reports in the period to those two aircraft.
Advertisement
One of history’s more famous UFO sightings occurred in 1997, when a mysterious unidentified boomerang-shaped craft was spotted over Phoenix, Ariz. It was potentially an alien-looking, but very terrestrial in origin, B-2 Spirit bomber, from the nearby Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. Alternatively, the lights could be explained by an exercise of the Air National Guard, according to an Arizona State University astronomy professor and other scientists who examined the evidence.
Advertisement
Despite the thoroughly unconvincing nature of the evidence for space aliens visiting our planet, Washington elites’ UFO-obsession isn’t exactly new. John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign chief, famously moved in the orbit of UFO conspiracy theorists. Hacked emails indicate that he agreed to meet with former astronaut Edgar Mitchell to discuss how the latter’s sketchy company might use alleged alien technology to fight global warming.
“We work with specific ETI [Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence] from a contiguous universe,” the former astronaut’s firm claimed. “They are nonviolent and in complete obedience to God. Our ETI’s connection to zero point energy is obvious in that their purpose is to guide Edgar’s international Quantrek science team to apply their zero point energy research for humanity, to move away from the use of fossil fuels which are so deleterious to our fragile planet.”
It is unsurprising that the company secured a meeting with Podesta using claims of alien contact, given the strength of Podesta’s preoccupation with UFOs. Podesta said in 2014 that his failure to secure the release of UFO files was his “biggest failure” of the year.
It seems that some things never change, like the human fascination with UFOs . . . and the weakness of the evidence that the unidentified objects are anything more alien than geese.Christoph Waltz in Georgetown. (Paramount Movies/Trailer image via YouTube)
This true-crime bio-farce is the Swamp movie of the year.
Notice the disclaimer at the start of the film Georgetown: “This story does not, in any way, claim to be the truth. Nonetheless it is inspired by real events.”
It’s devious, like those TV newsreaders parleying the cliché of “false claim” to discourage their audience from any speculation about voter integrity. Georgetown’s murder-mystery plot speculates about moral integrity where we find the seat of government. It’s both a sex farce and a horror film, suggesting more about politics and corrupt journalism than you’ll ever learn from CNN, Fox, or MSNBC (recently dubbed MSDNC). The skullduggery revealed in Georgetown, titled after the Washington, D.C., neighborhood, makes it the Swamp movie of the year.
Advertisement
How European self-starter Ulrich Mott (played by Christoph Waltz) climbs the Beltway power ladder by marrying widowed journalist Elsa Breht (Vanessa Redgrave) is an impudent replay of the real-life story of German émigré Albrecht Muth, who is serving a 50-year prison sentence for killing his wife, 91-year-old D.C. socialite-journalist Viola Drath, in 2011.
As directed by Waltz (the Austrian actor whom Quentin Tarantino introduced to American filmgoers in Inglourious Basterds and Django Unchained as a time-traveling, cross-genre changeling), Georgetown adopts moral conceits familiar from Waltz’s theatrical background: Ulrich Mott could be a character in a play by Arthur Schnitzler (La Ronde) or Friedrich Dürrenmatt (The Visit), dramatists concerned with personal and political power. Georgetown similarly observes the craven dishonesty behind bureaucratic politics that our contemporary media ignore.
It’s a wonder that Waltz got away with such risky satire. His producer, Brett Ratner, must be working off the onus of his own sexual-impropriety charges since being canceled by #MeToo culture. This shrewd comedy about white-collar treachery could only be more keen-eyed if James Toback had directed it with his bold, ribald insight that goes deeper than journalistic folly — and minus the timidity of Paul Schrader’s The Walker, a glum D.C. sex farce about the shadow world of Washington escorts.
Advertisement
Waltz and Ratner collaborated with playwright David Auburn (Proof) to bring feminine empathy to its masculine character study. Waltz plays Mott as a scheming, skeevy villain, but opposite him, Vanessa Redgrave gets her fullest film role in years. Instead of dramatizing toxic masculinity, Georgetown reveals political toxicity. It peeks inside D.C.’s hidden business — the dinner parties, glad-handing, and comfortable affluence. Here are the private delusions and personal vendettas that mean so much to the professional lives of journos and politicos. It’s the same territory that Steven Spielberg casually accepted and valorized in his egregious Katherine Graham–Ben Bradlee tribute The Post.
Waltz delivers a dazzling, memorable con: “Diplomatic history and practice are my passion. Kissinger, Bismarck, Tallyrand — what a genius! Have you read him, Tallyrand?” But then, Redgrave’s avid bemusement during her first meeting with Ulrich says as much. This old lady, “the ascendant queen of Georgetown society” courted by a go-getter gigolo, enlightens us past our naïveté. Waltz’s casting of D.C. establishment types (white, old; young, eager; all arrogant) gives a perfect picture of a separate America with snobby, monarchist class notions. The film’s farce includes a news clip flashback to George W. Bush on Iraq (“Responsibility rests with me”) that’s almost refreshing; it brings back Hollywood’s cynicism, from the time when it hated 43 before he sided with 44 against 45. But the overall farce structure is built on insider details: references to Sally Quinn and Elsa’s Harvard-professor daughter (Annette Bening) humble-bragging, “I teach constitutional law, so please just remove the layer of condescension from your voice!” By now, we should not be surprised by elites who use the Constitution to promote personal grievances. Based on a New York Times article, “The Worst Marriage in Georgetown,” by Franklin Foer, the film tickles our skepticism.
Hollywood can no longer be trusted politically, yet the lead actors make Georgetown’s social and temperamental landscape vivid. Ulrich’s various costumes — from a foreign dignitary’s uniform to an eye patch and a beret worn when he cruises the D.C. Basin — make an indelible character sketch, like Elsa’s tweed Chanel suit, a minimal but telling wardrobe. She is glimpsed at a typewriter, but we wonder: Other than provide Ulrich access to D.C.’s most eminent operators, what does this venerable “journalist” do?
Advertisement
The issue of irresponsible media becomes equal to irresponsible government and personal responsibility. Georgetown is the rare modern movie to look at people who are morally blind yet greedy for authority and status. Ulrich’s crime is part of this shameless culture: Mika Brzezinski’s talk at the National Press Club; appointments at the office of George Soros (described as a “billionaire political activist and philanthropist”); reservations at La Chaumière; dining with former defense secretary Robert McNamara — all faked, but that in itself is preferable to the deceptions in Borat.
Waltz and Auburn cleverly divided their true-crime, D.C. Swamp bio-farce into six sections: The Intern, The Butler, The Diplomat, The Incident, The Embed, The Truth. They chart the levels of government, the means to power, that most Americans know nothing about. Waltz’s cool, detached film style made me recall the aerial view of Rhode Island mansions in the Claus von Bülow murder-mystery satire Reversal of Fortune. (“Is that America!” I gasped.) And Waltz/Mott’s conniving, obsequious, media-ready grin — before he commits murder — confirms the joke that’s being played on us.
﻿Do you know what really irritates me about my iPhone? It doesn’t work on the moon. If I’m on the moon, then no calls, no texts, no maps. You might as well be . . . well, on the moon, gosh darn it.
Thank goodness someone is on the case.The American Enterprise Institute released a report by Lyman Stone last month on the replacement of American community life. Anyone interested in the country’s standing reserve of social capital (or lack thereof) would benefit from reading it.
Cameron Hilditch is a William F. Buckley Fellow in Political Journalism at National Review Institute. @CameronHilditchThe SpaceX Crew Dragon Endeavor carrying the Crew-2 mission astronauts approaches the International Space Station, April 24, 2021. (Mike Hopkins/NASA/Handout via Reuters)
We have all the ingredients for a new era: falling prices, abundant resources, and eager entrepreneurship.
Through the 1990s and into the new millennium, advocacy groups such as the National Space Society (full disclosure: I was in charge of policy and legislation at the NSS starting in 1989 and was executive vice president from 1991 to 1995) worked to advance the position of private-launch companies, encourage friendly government regulation, promote the growth of a strong private-sector presence in space, and fight the “dumping” (sales below cost that would hurt the development of American companies) of Chinese government-launch services.
Advertisement
The thinking was straightforward: A government-based space program would always be subject to political winds and whims. Not being self-supporting, it would always face competition from other programs that gave a more direct payoff to various political interest groups. In addition, even when funded, a government program would tend to dissipate its resources and efforts in bureaucratic payroll padding and empire building. A commercial enterprise, disciplined by shareholders and the bottom line, would have to focus more on producing results and, more crucially, on lowering costs and improving performance — something that NASA had not distinguished itself in achieving.
With a new family and related distractions, I took about a decade off from the scene. When I returned, the change was obvious. The annual International Space Development Conferences, which once had the ambience of a Star Trek convention, seemed far more professional. There were still plenty of button-bedecked enthusiasts, but there were also venture capitalists in Brioni suits and entrepreneurs who were actually bending metal and launching things, or working hard at doing so. I ran into a woman who I remembered as a student activist with Students for the Exploration and Development of Space; now she was a professor of astronautics at MIT. Another former student activist was in charge of space matters for Google.
Advertisement
As we’ll see later, there are many things that we can do in space, if we can just get there. But getting there is expensive. The largely unheralded revolution of the past decade has been that getting into space has become far cheaper than it used to be, and that it promises to get much cheaper still.
As the science-fiction writer Robert Heinlein famously said to his colleague Jerry Pournelle: “Once you’re in Earth orbit, you’re halfway to anywhere” in the solar system. That statement is not mere hyperbole but physical truth. The change in velocity (and hence energy required) to get from Earth to orbit is approximately the same as that needed to reach even the most distant planet in the solar system from Earth’s orbit. Thus, a change in the cost of getting to orbit is a pretty good first-order measure of how our changes in space capability are going. Here, the news over the past decade has been very good.
Advertisement
It used to cost almost $55,000 to get a kilogram into orbit on the Space Shuttle. To do the same thing today with the Falcon 9, the newest rocket from Elon Musk’s SpaceX enterprise, costs approximately $2,700. That’s roughly a twentyfold reduction.
Many things that are too expensive to do at $55,000 per kilogram become doable at $2,700 per kilogram. And SpaceX is not standing still. Its Starship reusable rocket, now under development, is expected to cost a mere $2 million per launch. Elon Musk says its cost per kilogram to orbit will be at least ten times lower than that of the Falcon 9. There are a lot more things that become doable at approximately $270 per kilogram. At these prices, things like space tourism and hotels, lunar mines, and asteroid mining become feasible. At a certain point, prices get low enough to draw in all sorts of new activity — much as when computing power became so affordable that suddenly it started to appear in things such as washing machines and kids’ toys. I asked a former NASA official who’s very familiar with the industry about this and got this reply: “We are just now, with reusables, starting to see possible price elasticity due to lower prices. . . . The Commercial Space Transportation Study in 1994 predicted launch prices needed to drop below $400 per pound for price elasticity to become significant. That would be about $1,550 per kilogram in today’s dollars. Almost there.”
Faster, please! SpaceX isn’t the only company lowering costs in this area; it’s just the one making the biggest, most public splash. Other companies, ranging from the relatively tiny RocketLab to Jeff Bezos’s secretive Blue Origin, are doing the same.
Advertisement
They’re lowering costs because doing so is essential to their business. Additionally, since they are commercial rather than political enterprises, they can afford to fail. When a SpaceX test rocket explodes on the stand, that’s not a political scandal or a tragedy, but a learning event for engineers to study in order to find out what went wrong and how to stop it from happening again. Instead of congressional hearings, the problem fix is examined at the next test launch. There are no rewards for boosting payrolls, adding levels of management, or opening a facility in a key congressional district. Customers want cheap, reliable launches, and the only way to survive is to give them what they want. The only way to flourish is to give those customers more of what they want than the competition can.
We’re already seeing some of the benefits. SpaceX is launching its Starlink broadband, low-latency satellite network, in which thousands of relatively small, advanced satellites (each weighing approximately 260 kg) will orbit the earth simultaneously, allowing people to access the Internet from anywhere. It’s doubtful that this could have been profitable at costs of more than $50,000 per kilogram. It’s likely that it can be at one-twentieth of the cost.
Advertisement
The space resource used by communications satellites is locational. By virtue of being located overhead, they can see and communicate with large swathes of territory at a time. (“Spy” satellites — more politely referred to as “remote-sensing” satellites — also take advantage of this locational resource, and while they were once the sole domain of superpower intelligence agencies, lower costs have made their commercial use so common it’s no longer even newsworthy.) But there are other resources available, too.
This article is adapted from the author’s book America’s New Destiny in Space.(AMAYRA/iStock/Getty Images)
It shouldn’t be controversial to assert that there are only two sexes.
We have passed through one or two generations of post-Pill sexual liberation only for sex and gender to once again become topics impossible to discuss in a dispassionate way — even in a supposedly scientific venue, such as a listserv of the American Psychological Association (APA).
Recently, I was excluded from an email discussion listserv of the APA. I was not told exactly why, though I believe it was for a few mildly skeptical comments I had made about nonbinary sex. And I enjoyed the irony that my expeller told me, while in the act of kicking me out, that he recognizes “there are a wide range of views about many issues.”
Advertisement
Maybe so. But the biological facts here are clear. All mammals reproduce sexually; reproduction requires an egg and a sperm, the male supplies the sperm and the female the egg — no room for a third party. Male and female are it. A few non-mammalian species show surprising flexibility. Some zooplankton, such as rotifers, have a complex sharing arrangement that is still being sorted out (at least by us; the rotifers seem perfectly clear on the matter). Adult swordtails (Xiphophorus helleri), a popular live-bearing aquarium fish, sometimes change sex from female to male. Many other fish species change sex as adults — from female to male and the reverse. In clownfish (Amphiprion), the change is triggered by, for example, the composition of the fish school (if all female, one female may change to a male) or simply age.
Mammals are less flexible, but essentially all mammalian species that have been carefully studied show departures from normal heterosexual behavior — “normal” in the sense that it is both the majority pattern and essential to survival of the species. Human beings obviously also show a variety of abnormal patterns, such as homosexuality. (“Homosexuality is as natural as heterosexuality,” as Myra Breckinridge author Gore Vidal put it. “Notice I use the word ‘natural,’ not normal.”) Include also the wish to be, or the feeling of being, the opposite sex (transgender). These variants form a small fraction of the population. Between 2 and 10 percent of the U.S. male population may be homosexual and perhaps 1 to 2 percent of females. The proportion of bisexuals and transsexuals is probably much lower. All these figures are moving targets and vary with the winds of cultural change.
Advertisement
The causes of the different variants are uncertain; no doubt, cultural as well as biological (genetic, developmental) factors are involved in a still-unknown mix. The adaptive function of individuals who don’t reproduce is also unclear. Obviously if a substantial fraction of the population quits reproducing, the future of the species looks dim. On the other hand, division of interests and division of labor may mean that some nonreproductive minorities (celibate religious sects are an obvious example) contribute to rather than diminish the “fitness” of a culture.
How variants should be valued is a matter for ethics and politics, not science. But biology matters; and here, politics can warp science. That there are two sexes is biologically indisputable. That there are several minority variants is also indisputable. But sex is not a continuum.
There are real differences between men and women. Some claims achieve a consensus: Almost everybody will agree to them. Others, not so much. For example, men are in general stronger than women: They run faster, lift heaver weights, and are better football players. Despite the miraculous Simone Biles, men can even be better gymnasts. Men also tend to die sooner, commit more violent crimes, and take more risks, and they have more accidents. Most people agree on these things. What do they mean for women’s participation in the military? Participation of trans-women (i.e., men) in female sports?
Psychologists also tell us that men tend to be more interested in things, while women are more interested in people. Can this difference partly explain male–female disparities in professions such as nursing and engineering? Males, on most dimensions, are more variable than females. On some cognitive measures, for example, the population means are the same, but the male distribution is more spread out: more male idiots and also more male geniuses. Alluding to this as an explanation for the disproportionate representation of men in math-related departments at Harvard got then–Harvard president Larry Summers into trouble a few years ago. It is a fact nevertheless.
Advertisement
Passionate advocates for “gender equity” are likely to question if not ignore biological male–female differences. Sex differences very quickly become political rather than scientific issues. Equality before the law is a consensus view. But whether people should be equally treated in all other respects are matters where, in recent years, proven and relevant biological differences are sidelined. Does it make sense to treat men and women as identical, and equally valuable, in hazardous and physically stressful situations, for example? Should it really be “women and children, selected at random” — rather than “first,” for example?
We remain uncertain about less-well-established socio-cultural (gender) differences between males and females. Not all gender questions can be decided by science, but political and even ethical decisions that ignore established biology are unlikely to be wise.
Advertisement
A Pavlovian reaction to mild dissent is unlikely to advance our understanding. “Enthusiasts” in the APA and other supposedly scientific organizations should take note.(seksan mongkhonkhamsao/iStock/Getty Images Plus)
Dangerous political fads are no substitute for the timeless wisdom of Catholic social teaching.
Critical Race Theory (CRT) and other “woke” ideologies, having swept higher education out to sea, now seem to be flooding our elementary and secondary schools. There are daily reports of parents and teachers complaining bitterly about the rising tide, pushing back against the entrenchment of hyper-politicized school boards, and suing school systems for violating students’ civil rights. Sad to say, not even Catholic schools are immune to the latest schoolhouse fad. When the Sacred Heart Network, which runs 25 posh schools across the United States, pledged to work “to end systemic racism in our institutional structures,” shocked parents found themselves fighting to keep CRT away from their children, as well as fighting to protect the souls of their Catholic schools.
Advertisement
Miami’s Carrollton School is a case in point. An architectural gem on Biscayne Bay, the all-girl school is independent of the Miami Archdiocese and boasts tiny class sizes and the highest academic standards. But a growing number of parents recently started noticing an insidious narrowing of views considered acceptable at school. Their daughters complained that expressing opinions contrary to “woke” orthodoxy, especially on racial and sexual issues, was becoming impossible — even when these opinions aligned with Catholic teaching.
In a recent letter to the school’s board (later leaked to the press), almost 200 parents of current students and many graduates pointed out that girls were being “targeted and ostracized by the very teachers who should be defending the students’ rights to express” traditional Christian views. The signatories were promptly smeared as racists and homophobes and (gasp!) Cuban Republicans, all for daring to expect that at a Catholic school, their children would receive an education centered not on politics but on Catholic social teaching.
Advertisement
The central tenet of that teaching is, of course, the inherent and equal dignity of all people, regardless of race, condition, or developmental stage. This precept is founded, in turn, on the revolutionary Christian proposition that we are made by God in his own image, and that when God came to Earth, he chose to be born a pauper in a cave, marginalized and vulnerable. It is impossible to overstate the effect of this upon our culture’s “conception of law and its duties to the poor and outcast,” as G. K. Chesterton wrote in his book The Everlasting Man, adding, “It is profoundly true to say that after that moment [of God’s arrival on Earth] there could be no slaves.”
In short, the absolute brotherhood of man across all divides is a Christian, Catholic concept. It properly undergirds every endeavor marked with the sign of the cross. It is the beginning and the ultimate end of every moment of instruction on diversity and tolerance in a Catholic school. Or should be.
Advertisement
The letter’s signatories, and the many parents who share their concerns, asked that racism be rejected on these noble grounds, not on the grounds of a political ideology (CRT) that is deeply problematic. CRT teaches children to divide the world into oppressors and oppressed, based on racial and ethnic categories. It seeks to address historic, present, and future injustices through a kind of reverse discrimination as well as through the dismantling of the market economy and institutions of democracy. It also sees traditional morality as simply another tool with which oppressors can control their victims. And its champions enforce this “wokeism” by aggressively tarring dissenters as bigots and demanding their “cancelation” from polite society.
The administrators of any Catholic school should recoil from such tactics in their laudable quest to instill charity and human solidarity in their students. As the parents wrote in their letter, “we should be redoubling our efforts in following Church teaching (which already knows racism and discrimination to be sins) rather than embracing tired atheist tropes of division and hopelessness.” The alternative — categorizing humans as either victims or oppressors — does psychological damage to children, and is contrary to the Catechism, which teaches that all people “have the same nature and the same origin.”
Advertisement
It’s hard to imagine a more pressing need than that of clarifying the mission of a Catholic school. Orderly hallways, a cross in each classroom, and plaid uniforms do not equal an authentic Catholic education. Such an education comes, above all else, from embracing the entirety of Catholic doctrine, even its unpopular but life-saving teachings on the family, marriage, and the dignity of human life. Dangerous political and ideological fads are no substitute for the timeless wisdom of a faith that confronts injustice armed with the powerful simplicity of the commandment to “love one another as I have loved you.”Nikole Hannah Jones (The Daily Show with Trevor Noah/ via YouTube)
Nikole Hannah-Jones, the New York Times journalist who developed the magazine’s controversial “1619 Project,” will no longer join UNC-Chapel Hill’s journalism department as a tenured professor after the school’s board of trustees expressed concern about awarding tenure to someone outside of academia, according to a new report.
Instead, Hannah-Jones will join the university’s Hussman School of Journalism and Media as a fixed-term “Professor of the Practice,” with the option of being reviewed for tenure within five years, according to the News & Observer. She will serve as the Knight Chair in Race and Investigative Journalism.
Advertisement
Susan King, the dean of the journalism school, reportedly said in a message to faculty that when Hannah-Jones’ case for tenure was presented, the campus trustees did not act on it.
King said she informed that the board, which has the power to approve all tenured positions, was “worried about a non-academic entering the university with this designation.”
However, all of the university’s previous Knight Chairs have been appointed with tenure, according to the report. The role is designed to bring professionals into academia.
NC PolicyWatch first reported that the university “backed down from offering” the reporter the tenure-track position following criticism from conservatives.
Hannah-Jones’s work has been the subject of intense scrutiny. Historians have called the 1619 edition of the New York Times magazine, of which she was lead essayist, “a very unbalanced, one-sided account” and “wrong in so many ways.” Critics have called the project “not only ahistorical,” but “actually anti-historical.”
The project, a feature on slavery in the U.S. that aims to shift perceptions of American history and change what students are taught in schools, won the 2020 Pulitizer Prize for Commentary. However, after receiving scrutiny from historians and politicians, the Times issued a clarification on the project.
Jay Schalin, director of policy analysis at the James G. Martin Center for Academic Renewal, said that Hannah-Jones’ hiring “signals a degradation of journalist standards.” Meanwhile, Shannon Watkins, also from the Martin Center, called out the trustees and the UNC system for failing to keep “‘activist-scholars’ from gaining positions within the university.'”
King defended the hire: “Investigative journalists always are involved in controversies. They dig deep, and they raise questions that demand answers. Part of what they do is raise uncomfortable questions for people, institutions and systems.”’
Advertisement
She said she had received support from the provost and chancellor in hiring Hannah-Jones, who covers civil rights and racial injustice for the New York Times Magazine, even if it did not involve tenure.
“They stood by the school to try to find a way to bring her here,” King said. “She will help our students navigate a changing time in America at a very partisan moment.”
Send a tip to the news team at NR.(Pascal Rossignol/Reuters)
Our friend Sonny Bunch has an essay in The Bulwark referring to a kerfuffle over the weekend in which Catholic writer Sohrab Ahmari alleged that Amazon was hiding his (conservative) book from search results for ideological reasons. Though others discovered other right-wing materials that were hard to find in a search, this turned out to be a glitch that was fixed the same day, and affected a wide variety of products across ideological grounds. The glitch even made it impossible for Sonny to find The Underground Railroad, the Amazon-produced miniseries that is pretty much the single most promoted item on Amazon these days. Sonny draws from this a lesson that ideological siloing can conceal from us the truth.
Advertisement
Fair enough, but Sonny’s suggestion is that each side of the ideological divide is equally susceptible to being blinded by its priors. I’d say we all know that Silicon Valley companies such as Amazon are avowedly on the Left and in the last few months they have taken a big step toward codifying their ideology in their services, overtly and aggressively moving forward to silence undesirables on the right. President Trump is banned from Twitter and Facebook, and we’re all supposed to just get used to this being the case indefinitely; Facebook restricted dissemination of a (true, or at least undenied and unrebutted) New York Post story about what it found on Hunter Biden’s laptop, and Twitter not only banned the story, it shut down the New York Post‘s account for weeks during an election season in a fit of pique about the damage done to Twitter ownership’s favorite political party, then after the election said, “Oops. Sorry, shouldn’t have done that.”
You will pardon me if I don’t think the issue Sonny discusses is equally of concern to both sides. Yes, Fox News did, briefly, go nuts with a false claim that Joe Biden was going to take away our hamburgers, but it did correct itself after a couple of days instead of spending months repeatedly doubling down on a far more consequential lie — the ridiculous false story so much of the media promoted about the “Florida whistleblower” Rebekah Jones. These two media miscues are not equivalent.
Advertisement
Sonny does mention in passing that Amazon admitted pulling a respected book on transgenderism, Ryan T. Anderson’s When Harry Became Sally, but seems blind to the massive change this represents. Amazon yanked the book for ideological incorrectness. Once that principle of thought-policing is established at our largest bookseller, it is not at all implausible that the Sohrab Ahmaris of the world might be next. Amazon also seems to have disappeared from its streaming service a perfectly normal and mainstream (and first-rate) documentary on Clarence Thomas that last May aired on PBS, hardly a hotbed of extremism. Amazon has, as far as I can tell, still not even acknowledged that it pulled the Thomas documentary, much less offered an explanation. The disappearance of that film has been widely discussed in the media, including in this Wall Street Journal column by Jason L. Riley — hardly a fringe blog post — and Amazon has continued to stonewall the matter. (I’ll be happy to correct this piece if Amazon has in fact responded on the matter.)
We’ve got a much bigger problem than ideological confirmation bias (though that is a problem, and I do not claim to be immune to it). The principal conduits of information in this country are shutting down access to disfavored ideas and people, and it isn’t a bug.U.S. Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Skyler Stevens uses new night optics technology during Advanced Naval Technology Exercise 2018 at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, Calif., March 19, 2018. (U.S. Marine Corps/Lance Cpl. Rhita Daniel/Handout via Reuters)
On the menu today: A deep dive into the U.S. military — and former president Barack Obama! — declaring that indeed, pilots encounter flying objects that we cannot identify on a regular basis.
Obama on UFO Videos: ‘We Don’t Know Exactly What They Are’
Much like the sudden shift on the conventional wisdom around the lab leak, the conventional wisdom about UFOs — not necessarily space aliens, but the existence of flying objects that authorities cannot identify — is shifting rapidly; it’s like you can feel the ground moving beneath your feet. 60 Minutes did a lengthy and credulous report, featuring declassified videos of objects that don’t look like any conventional aircraft, and interviews with former Pentagon officials and retired Navy pilots who seemed convinced.
Advertisement
No less a figure than former president Barack Obama is weighing in, indicating that he, as president, was kept in the loop about what U.S. military pilots were seeing the skies and unable to identify.
Last night on The Late Late Show with James Corden, Obama declared, “What is true, and I’m actually being serious here, is that there is footage and records of objects in the skies that we don’t know exactly what they are.” He continued: “We can’t explain how they move, their trajectory. They did not have an easily explainable pattern. And so I think that people still take seriously, trying to investigate and figure out what that is.”
Advertisement
What’s going on here? There are four main possibilities. These pilots could be witnessing secret U.S. government or military technology, secret technology from the private sector, secret technology from an unfriendly country, or . . . aliens. (Insert “I’m not saying it’s aliens . . . but it’s aliens” meme here.)
One: Secret U.S. government or military technology. Every now and then, government officials make comments that suggest our government has made amazing technological breakthroughs.
Several times during his presidency, Donald Trump referred to a “super-duper missile.” In May 2020, he said at a press conference about the Space Force, “We’re building, right now, incredible military equipment at a level that nobody has ever seen before. We have no choice. We have to do it — with the adversaries we have out there. We have a — I call it the ‘super-duper missile.’ And I heard the other night, [it’s] 17 times faster than what they have right now.” Pentagon officials later elaborated that the president was referring to research and development of hypersonic weapons that can travel 17 times faster than the speed of sound.
For what it’s worth, one of the retired government officials interviewed in the 60 Minutes report, former deputy assistant secretary of defense for intelligence Christopher Mellon, said it’s not one of ours.
Former president Obama could be lying — come on, it’s happened before — and it could be that the highest levels of the U.S. government do know what these things are, but doesn’t want to say, as part of an elaborate effort to maintain the secrecy of a U.S. aerial-combat or surveillance advantage. But if we had technologies so advanced that our own pilots, who were not read into the program, thought they were beyond the capacity of human beings . . . well, wouldn’t we be doing a lot better on a lot of fronts? Does our military and intelligence community act like they’ve got access to technology that, in the words of one Pentagon investigator, “can do 6-to-700 g-forces, that can fly at 13,000 miles an hour, that can evade radar and that can fly through air and water and possibly space”?
Advertisement
Advertisement
And if you had that technology, would you be flying around off the coast of Virginia Beach “every day for at least a couple years,” as one former Navy pilot lieutenant told 60 Minutes?
Wouldn’t you spend more time buzzing the Natanz nuclear-research site in Iran or something?
Advertisement
Compared to other technological breakthroughs, classified aviation projects are a lot harder to keep secret, because they need to fly around. Sure, those testing the crafts can try to keep them in restricted airspace such as Groom Lake, a.k.a. Area 51, but sooner or later, someone will see something, either on the ground, in the air, on radar, or in a satellite image. The same is true for our space-based programs. Even when NASA has something secret, like the X-37B Secret unmanned Space Shuttle, sky-watchers know they’re launching it, they just don’t know what that shuttle’s mission is. And when NASA runs tests of aircraft near cities, it sends out a press release; it doesn’t want large numbers of people convinced they’ve just seen alien spacecraft.
And companies that develop these aircraft are often itching to showcase them to the world, like Northrop Grumman’s B-21 heavy bomber and Lockheed Martin’s new Speed Racer drone.
Then again, sometimes our defense establishment can keep secrets from the rest of the world. Last September, the U.S. Air Force revealed it had secretly designed, built, and flown at least one prototype of its Next Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) fighter, years ahead of schedule. And the concept art, revealed just last month, makes it look a little like the flattened, dart-like alien fighters from the movie Independence Day. It’s not hard to imagine someone seeing a test flight of that craft and thinking it was something alien.
Advertisement
Similarly, in the 1980s, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and Northrop Grumman developed an odd, boxy craft named “Tacit Blue.”
Advertisement
One problem with this theory is that one of the sightings discussed in the 60 Minutes report occurred in November 2004, almost 17 years ago. We’ve had aviation breakthroughs in the past 17 years, but nothing like what the Navy pilots described in that incident — the speed, the maneuverability, the ability to virtually disappear.
Two: Secret technology from the private sector. SpaceX and Blue Orchard are doing some amazing things, but what they’ve shown the world is nothing like what is seen on the Navy jets’ infrared-targeting cameras. And we’re stuck with the same question as this being a secret government project: If someone had the ability to do this 17 years ago . . . what have they been doing with it since? If you developed these kinds of extraordinary stealth and surveillance abilities, wouldn’t you want to apply it to some sort of goal other than checking out sunbathers around Virginia Beach?
Advertisement
Three: Secret technology from an unfriendly country. This is arguably the most ominous potential explanation.
We know China is developing its own stealth fighters, and it is believed that the FC-31 Gyrfalcon completed a flight test late last year. But the publicly available images of the Gyrfalcon suggest it looks like . . . a jet fighter, nothing like the circular or tube-like images seen on 60 Minutes.
Russia’s Okhotnik unmanned combat air vehicle is now being tested, and drones can definitely look more “alien” because they don’t need to fit a human pilot inside. They don’t need windows, and they don’t need wings. If talented tinkerers can create floating versions of the “Baby Yoda” cradle, Russian or Chinese flight engineers could create a flying drone that looks like a sphere or Tic-Tac. The question is whether they could make a vehicle that could move the way these images move.
And while China or Russia may seem aggressive and confident on the world stage right now, if they really had technology that was several generations ahead of the U.S. military’s, wouldn’t they be even more aggressive than they are now? Why rattle the saber on Taiwan or Ukraine when you’ve got an unbelievably lopsided air-superiority advantage?
And finally . . .
Four: They’re aliens. Weirdly, if these are alien craft, that almost seems more reassuring than a hostile human foreign power. These craft certainly don’t seem hostile, or at least immediately hostile. They certainly don’t seem to be interested in appearing in a giant craft above our cities, like in V. Maybe they have something akin to a “Prime Directive,” and believe they should only quietly observe humanity, and not interfere in our development. Maybe we’ve become a giant reality show for some alien civilization.
The isolated tribesmen of North Sentinel Island in the Bay of Bengal have never had serious contact with the outside world because they attack anyone who comes near them. The Indian government strongly discourages efforts to contact the tribesmen; attempts to contact them or interact usually are met with a volley of arrows and spears. The Sentinelese presumably have little to no sense of life outside of their island, in part because of their uniquely isolated culture.
Advertisement
Maybe we look like that to an alien culture. Human beings are messy, divided, sometimes mean. We’re capable of great acts and great mercy, but also atrocities and cruelty. Collectively, some group of people somewhere on Earth has been fighting wars over territory, resources, cultural differences, and faith for the entirety of human existence. Our societies are getting better — gradually — but human nature hasn’t changed much if it has changed at all. We exhibit short-term thinking, self-destructive bad habits, impulsive decision-making, greed, arrogance, stubborn denial of inconvenient facts, and lie to others and ourselves.
An alien civilization capable of developing the technology to travel between star systems — and to create stealthy surveillance craft! — probably worked a lot of these issues out a long time ago. We must look like unruly toddlers to them. Maybe we are best watched from a safe distance.
ADDENDUM: When you have 90 minutes or so to spare, check out my long chat with old friend Jonah Goldberg on The Remnant podcast.Van Morrison performs at the 41st Montreux Jazz Festival in 2007. (Denis Balibouse/Reuters)
A pop genius’s political poetry sets the record straight.
Van Morrison’s new three-LP album Latest Record Project, Volume 1 is so radical — so out of fashion, it’s ahead of fashion — that it also recalls the most widely celebrated album from exactly 40 years ago: The Clash’s punk-reggae-rap lollapalooza, their triple LP Sandinista!
The Clash’s overt political pop was dedicated to peer-pressure attitudes that define rock-music hipness. Morrison, at age 75, is no longer considered “hip,” but Latest Record Project, Volume 1 proves bolder than Sandinista! because Morrison’s emotional-political drive dares oppose genuine political conformity, the COVID lockdowns of the past year.
Advertisement
Throughout 28 tracks, Morrison effectively challenges the current junta (politicians across the globe having usurped social power thanks to COVID and by other unmentionable means). It’s an expansive album but consistently focused on the topsy-turvy political non-thinking that has changed Millennial life. Morrison knows that the emotional turmoil we’ve suffered over the past year, through media compliance and pseudo “science,” requires ethical and aesthetic reassessment. And like Michael Jackson’s inspiring “Man in the Mirror,” Morrison starts with himself.
Morrison’s title song begins simply: A soulful organ reveals “Not something that I used to do / Not something that you’re used to.” Rather than Morrison’s usual soul-pop, a female chorus’s “Sha-la-la-la” conveys a sense of humor; Morrison is not taking himself overly seriously. Transcending the false piety of Bruce Springsteen and Neil Young, borrowing a bit of Morrissey’s agitator wit, he sings “in the present.” He means both right now and, hopefully, what a sane future will look back on with admiration.
Unlike The Clash’s Kommunism for Kids, which praised Nicaragua’s Communists as a gesture of punk righteousness, Morrison offers the good sense and individuality of the blues. (Besides, nobody listens to Sandinista! anymore.)
Advertisement
On “Thank God for the Blues,” Morrison’s blues-tense goes “Sing it for me, sing it for you / Sing it for the people who feel the way I do,” simplifying his blues-politics into the distinct expression of formerly marginalized people. His natural empathy makes up for the fact that those people now have been gulled into mistaking their period of widest acceptance, visibility, and power for a moment of neglect. Through the blues, Morrison refers to the consciousness of spiritually motivated black people who thought and felt for themselves — and made art about it.
Yet, Morrison realizes pop is ephemeral (“Only a Song” reasons, “It’s not set in stone / It’s only a poem”), and that’s what makes this album’s political and artistic stance so brave; it’s of the moment. And in this moment, mainstream media have become almost completely unreliable, a tool of secret class war where empowered people feel entitled to tell the rest of us how to live. Van replays that point tastily, using blues licks to make bullet points:
** “Where Have all the Rebels Gone?” states the cultural problem, plus uses a toe-tapping beat. Take that, Pete Seeger!
Advertisement
** “The Long Con” is where Van lifts the scales from his eyes. The song’s intellectual burden could as well have been sung by Leadbelly swinging his prison-gang sledgehammer.
** “Duper’s Delight” exposes the duplicity of romantic and political betrayal. (“They’re running rings around you / Cuz they’re trying to confound you.”) Repeating the phrase “You don’t know this,” Morrison nearly enters his famous ecstatic transport. I dedicate the track to Michelle Obama.
** “Jealousy” answers his political critics: “I’m not a slave to the system like you. . . . I made it in spite of you,” but sung so gently there’s no bitterness.
** “Psychoanalyst’s Ball” is where the album expands to deal with the roots of the derangement syndrome that has overtaken the Left. Morrison connects Freud and Marx with New Age religious habit.
** “Blue Funk” confesses “I fell into a blue funk, get myself out of the mire / Not preaching to the choir, move up a little higher / Stop listening to the mainstream media junk, look how far we’ve sunk.”
Advertisement
** “Double Bind” zeroes in on media hegemony: “It’s opposite of what they say / Cuz they know people are really prey.”
Sharpest of all is “Why Are You on Facebook?” Here, Morrison breaks down social-media interdependence and insecurity. It’s a question few dare ask. (“Are you looking for a scapegoat to blame? /Are you a failure again?” is very Morrissey.) Cardi B, Adele, Ed Sheeran, and Shawn Mendes won’t ask, since they depend on social media.
Morrison’s ideological detractors at Rolling Stone, The Guardian, and Pitchfork won’t admit that the album is very easy listening, like Dylan’s overlooked Trumpian Rough and Rowdy Ways. On “My Time After a While,” Morrison employs a “ring-a-ding-ding” that rivals Sinatra’s smooth testicular fortitude — something John Legend’s soyboy fans know nothing about. They’re not listening and they’re not thinking. They want conformity.
A backbone of feeling and community (as in the Irish ethnic “Up County Down”) links the entire album. Morrison sings free of his own legend yet is more himself than ever — and ahead of his famous imitators. “Western Man” describes the collapse of our institutions and shames Springsteen’s useless Western Stars album. The lyric “While he was dreaming / Others were scheming” bests Neil Young’s 9/11 album Are You Passionate? and then some.
Morrison’s radical artistry angers leftist reviewers because he clearly is not lost in their world of white liberal blues fetishism and political condescension. He offers the finest deconstruction of the music and media system since Joni Mitchell’s “starmaker machinery” line in “Free Man in Paris.” Latest Record Project, Volume 1 deconstructs the process that liberals take for granted as theirs only — not yours and not for anyone who disagrees with them politically. The genius who made Astral Weeks, who can sing the phone book and still be compelling, feels betrayed by all those who claim to care about art and freedom but who, really, simply are sheeple. Semioticians everywhere should praise the title track alone, except they’re too busy teaching Marxism along with semiotics.
Advertisement
When Morrison says, “Follow the media / What’s their agenda / How do they frame it / How do they name it,” he’s opposing everything Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno said about “The Cultural Industry” in Dialectical Enlightenment (1947). But he’s now ignored in order to facilitate the social-justice zealots and an industry that prefers the lost, childish warblings of Billie Eilish and, worse, the political preening of Taylor Swift.
Advertisement
The gestalt of Latest Music Project, Volume 1 is to sing against the global push toward socialism. Meanwhile, the juvenile justice pop reviewers don’t even know what “dialectical enlightenment” is. Morrison proves that the beauty of freedom of speech is not just in what you say but how you say it.
The joy in Morrison’s voice is the joy of making music that communicates. This is true, rich protest. If it’s pamphleteering, that’s preferable to the usual pop garbage — what Chuck D once called “sex for profit.” Morrison doesn’t need the innovative arrangements Joe Chiccarelli brings to Morrissey’s oppositional work. “Only a Song” reminds us, “It could be back to front only to make it work / Get it to jump, get it to swing, so I can sing it.” Such modesty befits a visionary artist.The Nike logo is featured in Los Angeles, Calif., April 12, 2016 (Lucy Nicholson/Reuters)
Consumers’ Research, the nation’s oldest consumer protection agency, is launching an advertisement campaign targeting companies perpetuating “woke” culture.
The Consumers’ First ad program calls out progressive corporations that are catering to “woke” politics rather than prioritizing customers. The ads expose major companies’ hypocrisy, business failings, and unethical labor practices, such as Nike’s use of forced labor in the Uyghur region of China in its footwear manufacturing.
Advertisement
The ad about the athletic shoe company includes videography of minority Uyghur women working in factories as well as forceful quotations like, “Nike, stop exploiting foreign labor.”
The American Airlines ad highlights the contradiction of the company’s requirement for identification to board a plane and its repudiation of Texas’s version of a voter ID law, all while receiving billions in taxpayer bail-outs and laying off record numbers of staff.
In an interview with National Review, Executive Director of Consumers’ Research Will Hild said that these companies are failing to serve their customers and are pandering to woke politicians to distract from these shortcomings. For instance, the Wall Street Journal recently rated American Airlines the worst airline in the country.
“America Airlines shrunk legroom for passengers and laid off thousands of employees during the COVID pandemic while receiving billions in taxpayer bailouts. Coca-Cola and Nike have both been exploiting foreign, potentially forced, labor in China while American workers suffer,” Hild said.
“They do not want to have to answer questions about all the problems with their business model,” he continued.
The first phase of the Consumers’ Research campaign starts with a seven figure ad buy targeting American Airlines and Coca-Cola, in addition to Nike, for their politicized business objectives and workplaces.
The ads are scheduled to air nationally on cable as well as local markets where the featured companies are located. The headquarters of Nike, Coca-Cola, and American Airlines are in Oregon, Georgia, and Texas, respectively.
“It is time these corporate giants were called to task. We are giving consumers a voice. These companies should be putting their energy and focus on serving their customers, not woke politicians,” Hild added.
Advertisement
The ad campaign comes as many prominent national companies embrace what some have called woke capitalism. Coca-Cola was recently lambasted for integrating critical race theory into employee diversity and inclusion programming, instructing Caucasian workers to reduce their “whiteness” to accommodate and appear less aggressive to people of color.
In June 2020, the soft-drink giant boycotted advertising on Facebook and Instagram and joined a coalition of left-wing advocacy groups “as part of a campaign forcing the social media network to more stringently police hate speech and disinformation.”
The CEO of Delta Airlines, another corporation to join the “woke” bandwagon, Ed Bastian attacked Georgia’s latest voter integrity legislation requiring voters to present ID when turning in their ballots, blasting it as systematically racist. Delta currently has business partnerships with China, which has snuffed out the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong and continued its severe repression of ethnic and religious minorities, including Uyghurs and Tibetans.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.( zimmytws/Getty Images)
America’s descent into an Orwellian nightmare continues apace. Now government officials see fit to keep you from speaking out on policy matters if they don’t like your tone.
That’s the upshot of a recent encounter between Center for Equal Opportunity president Devon Westhill and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. As we read here, Westhill had been invited to speak before the commission, but was then disinvited when Commissioner Janet Dhillon turned thumbs down because she didn’t like his remarks.
Advertisement
Federal officials don’t care much for freedom of speech. They prefer controlled speech that supports their efforts. And they’re getting more aggressive themselves in deciding what may or may not be said.
I’m afraid that this will only get worse.(Tommy Flynn/Getty Images)
Newsweek reports that John Staddon, a neuroscience professor at Duke University, was booted off the American Psychological Association’s email listserv for stating that there are only two sexes. The notification of his expulsion came in the form of an email from Indiana University Bloomington provost Jonathan Crystal, professor of psychological and brain sciences. Crystal wrote:
The division leadership has received complaints about some of the posts that you have sent to the division listserv. . . . I do not want to get into the particulars of the range of complaints over the years, but I will note that a number of members of the executive committee and others have voiced concerns publicly on the listserv in an attempt to make you aware of how readers of the list might view some of the posts.
This lack of specificity in communicating Staddon’s offense is a typical authoritarian technique. As Orwell argued, if it is possible to commit a thought crime without knowing what exactly the thought crime was, then the surest way to avoid trouble is to stop thinking altogether. This is how the assault on the biological reality of sex is gaining ground, despite being transparently absurd.
Staddon told Newsweek:
Science, real science, can and should be isolated from politics. Science has values, to be sure — curiosity, honesty, openness to debate, adherence to empirical facts, and so on — but they are not, and should not be political. Most of my comments have been devoted to that fact. I might add that a sense of humor would help.
Of course, having a sense of humor also requires an ability to think freely.Actor Charles Grodin attends the 51st New York Film Festival, September 27, 2013. (Andrew Kelly/Reuters)
Veteran actor Charles Grodin has died at 86. Grodin’s best work was often as a supporting player, which allowed him to give free rein to his fundamental quirkiness and offbeat humor. Even his starring roles were often not quite starring; in Beethoven, he played second fiddle to a dog. In his most indelible and enduring screen role, Midnight Run, he was a quirky bookkeeper whose quirks drove Robert De Niro and Yaphet Kotto up the wall. (Kotto, himself a tremendous character actor, died earlier this year.)
And yet the most audaciously quirky of all of Grodin’s roles was himself, or at least a televised version of himself, as a late-night-talk-show guest and in his own, short-lived mid-1990s late-night talk show on (of all places) CNBC. Roger Ailes hired Grodin for that job, before leaving CNBC to start Fox News. In a way, Grodin’s earnest histrionics helped pave the way for the evening shout-show careers of Bill O’Reilly and Keith Olbermann. Grodin’s politics were liberal, if not always quite conventionally so, but what made the show a must-watch was its bizarre unpredictability, amplified by Grodin’s hesitating delivery. Grodin had long been one of the oddball guests on David Letterman, prone to insulting Dave, but his show posed the question, “What if the weird, uncomfortable guest was the host?” As a Vulture retrospective (quoting a contemporary Entertainment Weekly review) described Grodin’s transition from guest to host:
Grodin, whose career spans nearly fifty years, is a well-known thorn in the side of hosts who have spent decades dealing with his aggressive demeanor. His early guest appearances on the talk show circuit were quickly categorized as schtick, the affectation of a combative character whose eye-rolling accusations aimed to expose the fake friendliness of celebrity culture — and to prove that audiences loved the abuse. Throughout his shifting career, Grodin’s maintained and expanded on this “character,” challenging hosts and audiences to play along with the joke, or become the target. . . . “As a guest on Letterman and, earlier, Johnny Carson’s Tonight Show, Grodin excelled at the rude put-on, provoking reaction by seeming to appear angry or offended by his host. Now sitting in the opposite chair, Grodin frequently ignores his guest and gasses on about himself.” He became known for launching into off-topic digressions and demanding more camera time, tics that comic Dana Carvey repeatedly skewered on his short-lived variety show.
The New York Times called him “The Man Who Tortures the Stars”:
Mr. Grodin calls his series “dessert”: it is made up of chats mostly with show-business friends like Carol Burnett and Marlo Thomas and visits from favorite singers like Rosemary Clooney and Tony Orlando. Mr. Grodin, however, doesn’t make it easy for these performers to plug their latest projects — a staple of other talk shows. “Nobody cares what anybody has coming up next,” he says. “That’s a bad question.” . . . After 40 years in show business, he has accumulated enough opinions, stories and neuroses to fill several analysts’ logs. Instead, he fills his show with them. . . . Each hour opens with 10 minutes of vintage Grodin: a monologue in which he settles an old score or cocks an impatient eyebrow at politics, movies, whatever is irking him. In January he talked back to a replay of the President’s State of the Union Message, mocking the rhetoric that drew standing ovations: “Nobody wants fear and paralysis and terror. Good! Standing O. Clean up toxic dumps? Big! Stand, everybody, stand!”
Watching his show, you got the sense that nobody — including the host — quite knew what Grodin would do next, and that edgy volatility made it compelling television even when the actual content of Grodin’s rants was not all that interesting. For a sampling, here is his show reacting to the OJ verdict (complete with the slow jazz theme song).
And another 1996 episode, which among other things features a very young-looking Tony Snow:
Here he is as a genially rude guest on Hannity & Colmes, years later:
R.I.P.Devon Westhill, the president and general counsel of the Center for Equal Opportunity, was recently invited to testify before the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission — but then disinvited because the testimony he had submitted was too forthright in its criticism of corporate wokeness. Mr. Westhill’s submitted testimony here, and his account of what happened here, are each worth reading.
Roger Clegg serves on the board of the Center for Equal Opportunity, where he was formerly president and general counsel.(MarcBruxelle/Getty Images)
A career bureaucrat goes viral after death by writing his own obituary, raising questions about whether government equals fulfillment.
You don’t see many obituaries written in the first person, but a notice from the Massachusetts paper the Berkshire Eagle is an exception, and a drily elegant one at that. “My name was Bruce Garlow,” the piece opens. “I died at 72 due to complications of kidney disease on Friday, April 23, 2021, at BMC. Not quite what I planned when I moved into our new home only 7 months ago, but there you have it.”
The nearly jocular acceptance is disarming, and ultimately pleasing. As I read through the (notably lengthy) death notice, I was put in mind of Michel de Montaigne: “To philosophize is to learn how to die.” (Montaigne was quoting Cicero, who in turn cribbed from Plato.) Montaigne went on:
The premeditation of death is the premeditation of liberty; he who has learned to die has unlearned to serve. There is nothing evil in life for him who rightly comprehends that the privation of life is no evil: To know how to die delivers us from all subjection and constraint.
Bruce Garlow’s only complaint as he confronted the end was that life was, at 72 years, “a little short.” He died well. But by the time I finished the piece, I was thinking not of Montaigne but of Anton Chekhov, that lightly acidulous chronicler of obtuse burghers and self-deluding bureaucrats. It’s striking what Bruce Garlow considered important enough to mention in his final statement, and what he did not.
Garlow spends the bulk of the essay listing his career achievements, an evident source of pride and self-definition. When he notes that he began his professional life in the U.S. Postal Service, I couldn’t help but think of Seinfeld’s Newman — the mailman as micro-authoritarian, a tyrant prevented from indulging his thirst for control only by his lack of real power. This was quite unfair of me. And yet the rest of the obituary tended to reinforce the impression that the deceased was a man who admired above all else the administrative reach of the state, of which he was a very small but very enthusiastic part.
Can a person be proud of having served in local government? Undoubtedly. Such people often do important work in keeping our society functioning — keeping track of the real-estate records, counting the ballots. But this passage devastated me, both in what it said and what it didn’t: “I was predeceased by my wife of 28 years, Leslie Rudolph-Garlow, who died in 2008, and my daughter Lisa L. Garlow who we lost at the age of 48 in September 2020.”
Advertisement
How awful. That’s a distressingly young age for a daughter to die. No parent should ever have to bury his child. I imagine deep wells of sorrow underlay this sentence. It sounds as though Garlow’s wife died fairly young also. (She was 58, according to her own obit in the same paper.) There is a lot of unspoken sorrow in that paragraph also.
Or is there? I couldn’t tell. In 800 words, this is all the dead man has to say about his spouse and his daughter. Names and dates are all we learn about them. Maybe Garlow simply couldn’t bring himself to say another word about them. Maybe the pain is still too fresh, all of these years later, and perhaps in continuing a proud tradition of Yankee stolidity, Garlow thought it best to deal with loss by remaining resolutely tight-lipped about it. Perhaps he thought emotions are best conquered and restrained rather than indulged. Or maybe the opposite was the case: Perhaps by the time they passed, he no longer felt a strong connection to them. That does happen. As I say, I don’t know.
What I do know, from the essay, is that Garlow had a true calling in life, a robust and passionate lifelong love, and it was bureaucracy. We learn this because, with his dying words, he ransacks the thesaurus for synonyms for “functionary” and revels in a series of titles that sound like a comic litany from a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta:
I retired after 20 years as town administrator in Richmond . . . conservation administrator . . . administrator for the town of West Stockbridge . . . interim administrator in Lanesborough . . . district aide for former Rep. Christopher J. Hodgkins . . . chair of the board of the Small Town Administrators of Massachusetts . . . member of the Massachusetts Association of Conservation Commissions, which generously awarded me its conservation administrator of the year award in 2001 . . . board member of the Berkshire County Regional Housing Authority, co-chairman of the Berkshire Advisory Committee to the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, a member of the MCAD state advisory board . . . many local and regional governmental committees, commissions and task forces.
Down the decades, whenever a commission, committee, administration, or task force needed staff, Bruce Garlow was your man. Though he calls himself a “Democratic party activist,” that is as far as he goes toward explaining his underlying motivation. At no point does he refer to any sort of principle driving his zeal to administrate; he doesn’t say anything like, “I fought for fair housing via my service in . . . ” or “I helped expand voting access by . . . ” Merely having been part of the machinery of government, it appears, is what delivered to him his greatest satisfaction.
And so I finished this ostensibly larkish obituary with a certain sense of sadness. A man loses his wife at 58 and his daughter at 48, he lives more than threescore and ten years, and what he’d like us all to remember about him is a lifetime of being an unusually fervent administrative committee task-force member. One pictures Bruce Garlow arriving in heaven, as streams of the blessed dash through the gates to enjoy what lies beyond them, to ask St. Peter whether he might possibly give Garlow a job in the gatehouse itself, perhaps as a member of a committee dedicated to the discussion of gate-maintenance commission-board appointees or seraphim regulatory task-force administration protocols.
I feel bad for anyone who spends 72 years on this earth and in his valediction reserves his final words to suggest that fulfillment lies in commissions, boards, and task forces — the ersatz family of government.Britain’s Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, arrive for the annual Commonwealth Service at Westminster Abbey in London, England, March 9, 2020. (Henry Nicholls/Reuters)
Oh dear! Prince Harry has said something stupid again.
Appearing last week on an actor’s podcast, Dax Shepard’s Armchair Expert, he said, “I’ve got so much I want to say about the First Amendment as I sort of understand it, but it is bonkers.” He continued:
I don’t want to start going down the First Amendment route because that’s a huge subject and one which I don’t understand because I’ve only been here a short time. But, you can find a loophole in anything. You can capitalize or exploit what’s not said rather than uphold what is said. I believe we live in an age now where you’ve got certain elements of the media redefining to us what privacy means. There’s a massive conflict of interest.
The prince was speaking about the campaign he and his wife, Meghan Markle, have launched to prevent paparazzi from photographing celebrities’ children. This is yet another unseemly example of the royal couple shamelessly placing their petty rich-people problems before everything else. First, centuries-old institutions and family loyalty. Now the U.S. Constitution. What next?Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases attends the House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis on the Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., April 15, 2021. (Amr Alfiky/Reuters)
During a virtual commencement address for Emory University on Sunday, Dr. Anthony Fauci claimed that minorities were disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic partially because of the “the undeniable effects of racism” in America.
The chief medical advisor to the president explained that people of color are more likely to get infected because of their concentration in essential industries. He added that minorities are also more likely to develop serious adverse consequences due to the underlying health conditions, such as obesity and diabetes, trending in their communities.
Advertisement
“Almost all co-morbidities relate to social determinants of health dating back to disadvantageous conditions that people of color find themselves in from birth, regarding the ability of an adequate diet, access to healthcare, and the undeniable effects of racism,” Fauci continued.
The doctor did not cite any evidence to substantiate his claim that race — and not socioeconomic status — was the main driver of disproportionately high COVID rates in certain communities. He emphasized that COVID has spotlighted society’s shortcomings with regards to the intersection of public health and social justice issues.
“Our country’s experience with COVID-19 has not only upended our own lives but it has uncovered a stark reality and failing of our own society. The unacceptable disparities in health experiences by minority groups, especially African-Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans,” Fauci commented.
A poll from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce indicated that minority small businesses also struggled disproportionately with maintaining revenue streams and keeping their doors open amid the sweeping lockdowns and COVID restrictions mandated by state governments. Republican-dominated state legislatures have received criticism from Democratic states for relaxing regulations and resuming business activity.
“Let us promise ourselves our memory of this tragic reality – that an infectious disease disparately hospitalizes and kills people of color – does not fade after we return to some form of normality. Righting this wrong will take a decades-long commitment. I strongly urge you to be part of that commitment,” Fauci said to the graduates.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.(Dado Ruvic/Reuters)
In response to When Courage Dies, Hysteria Rules
In an earlier post about a false claim that a Jeopardy! contestant had used a white-supremacy gesture on the show, which led to a mob clamoring for blood against the innocent party, I held that people who don’t speak up for truth against such social-media frenzies are cowards. One previous contestant on the show, Shawn Buell, spoke about the phenomenon on the record to Ben Smith of the New York Times. I mentioned this contestant in passing because he admitted that he had misgivings about the lies the mob was spreading via a Facebook group, and thought their claims “unhinged,” but ultimately didn’t speak up because he “assumed he would be shouted down,” in Smith’s words.
Advertisement
Buell writes in to say it was unfair of me to charge him with cowardice, and he may be right. I didn’t mean to call attention to Buell in particular, not knowing much about his specific circumstances, but rather to a class of people who decline to offer any corrective when a group to which they belong turns into a mob amid false claims.
Buell notes that the peculiar constraints of the Facebook group to which a number of past Jeopardy! contestants belong seem to preclude any commentary that breaks with progressive conventional wisdom; one rule is “no politics,” but a specific exemption is alluded to in the assertion that “human rights are not political.”
Advertisement
Buell says: “This is code for ‘if you agree with us you’re in favor of human rights and scum if you don’t’ — which bothered me from the moment I was invited to join. Many of the folks who have signed this letter are very-online, extremely woke types and the admins themselves sport BLM avatars.” So Buell’s voice in this matter was probably not welcome in the first place. The Facebook group is itself an ideologically closed system.
Buell notes that he is the only one of the dissenting Facebook contestants who spoke to Smith of the Times on the record; others calculated that staying silent was prudent given the likely outcome of speaking out.
He adds,
I also don’t think “cowardice” on the part of non-signing members explains this as well as “discretion being the better part of valor.” You are invited to join this group for having achieved something unique and don’t expect to be recruited into a de facto political action committee whose self-appointed task is to police the ongoing production of a television show.
I leave readers to judge for themselves.The great majority of human history was not liberal (in its true meaning), but instead authoritarian. People were expected to obey leaders and we fought endlessly. Tribes feared and hated each other. There was no progress, nor even such a concept. Life truly was nasty, brutish, and short.
Then, roughly 700 years ago, we broke free of those arrangements. We began to adopt what Deirdre McCloskey and Art Carden call “the bourgeois deal,” whereby humans were freed of the ancient constraints. The result was a huge explosion in prosperity.
Now, however, the liberal order is grave danger. The authoritarians among us are poised to throw the ratchet into reverse.
One of the pessimists is GMU economics professor Don Boudreaux. Writing for AIER, he reflects on a recent video by Daniel Hannan of Britain. Boudreaux writes:
The reaction to Covid-19 is powerful evidence that our primitive instincts remain alive and ready to reestablish their dominance over the happy accident that is the culture, and resulting institutions, of liberalism. The hysterical fear that Covid stirred in so many people — including in many who are highly educated, of a scientific mindset, and, until Covid, of a liberal bent — and the sheepishness with which people followed the “leaders” who promised protection from Covid prompts Dan Hannan to worry that 2020-2021 is the beginning of the end of modernity.
Indeed. Over the last 16 months, we have seen just how thin is the veneer of civilization.
Boudreaux concludes his essay:
Abruptly starting 16 months ago, modern men and women were not only given license to revert to atavistic dread of strangers, but positively encouraged to harbor such dread and to act on it. Such atavistic attitudes and actions came all too naturally. Abruptly starting 16 months ago, humanity was encouraged to hold in contempt — even to censor — the relative few persons who refused to abandon liberal sensibilities. Abruptly starting 16 months ago, we prostrated our panicked selves before our “leaders,” begging that they use their god-like knowledge and powers (called “the Science”) to safeguard us from one particular source of illness, believed to be demonic. Abruptly starting 16 months ago, there quite possibly began the end of liberal civilization.
To that, I would add the eagerness with which many of our fellow citizens embraced the authoritarian policies and turned viciously against those of us who argued for liberty. We’re back to tribalism.Godzilla and King Kong in Godzilla vs. Kong. (Warner Bros. Pictures/Trailer image via YouTube)
Last night, I finally got around to seeing Godzilla vs. Kong, the latest installment in what is somewhat awkwardly called the “Monsterverse.” I saw it in a theater, something I have now done three times in the past year (the first two times in Virginia, because until March, there was a period when theaters in northern Virginia were open but theaters across the Potomac in D.C. were closed — we all know viruses can’t cross rivers). I know the movie is available to be streamed on HBO Max, but I actually like movie theaters, and am keen on maintaining the theatrical experience.
Advertisement
Returning to a theater was enjoyable, particularly for something as big, dumb, and fun as Godzilla vs. Kong, which uses a bonkers core of conspiratorial nonsense — Hollow Earth, top-secret government and corporate shenanigans, ancient gigantic lifeforms — to give audiences what we want: King Kong fighting Godzilla. There probably isn’t an amount of giant gorilla fighting giant lizard monster that is sufficient, so I suppose one can complain about the movie on that score, but there was definitely a lot (and something else!).
Seeing it made me think of the first time these two famous movie monsters went at it, in 1962’s King Kong vs. Godzilla. The original kaiju films can seem laughably primitive in retrospect, although, as Michael Brendan Dougherty — not to be confused with Godzilla: King of Monsters director Michael Dougherty — has noted, they can have surprising poignancy. As for their laughable primitiveness, however: See Godzilla vs. Kong, and then, if you haven’t seen it already, watch the climactic final fight from the 1962 battle:
Now, I am circumspect enough about the technical limitations of the time not to be overly critical of this. Indeed, there are some genuinely thrilling moments of choreography here. But it remains, to our modern eyes, archaic. What’s worth keeping in mind, though, is that these movies did it anyway. The directors of these older movies had nothing like the nigh-limitless means of technological and financial wizardry that modern Hollywood blockbusters have at their disposal. And yet the older works still reflect a deranged imagination and commitment that we should admire. I came out of Godzilla vs. Kong wondering what these older creators would think of what has become of their men in rubber suits . . . but also wondering what they might have done with such free rein, and whether our monster movies, even at their most bonkers, live up to this anarchic spirit.New York Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge (99) and other players run in from the outfield during the sixth inning against the Toronto Blue Jays at Yankee Stadium, June 25, 2019. (Brad Penner/USA TODAY Sports)
There was a panicky reaction when we learned last week that a bunch of personnel from the New York Yankees, including all-star shortstop Gleyber Torres, had tested positive for COVID-19. Today, that number is up to nine. The two takeaways hysterics turned to were 1) This proves that the coronavirus is still going strong and 2) this proves that vaccines aren’t our salvation. Nearly everybody in the Yankees clubhouse got the J&J vaccine some time ago.
Advertisement
Both of these fears are completely unfounded. What Americans who don’t follow sports closely don’t understand is that people in pro athletics are being obsessively tested and re-tested for COVID. Tom Brady was tested at least 200 times; LeBron James is around 300. The Yankees’ core group of about 50 to 60 people is being tested three times a day. Moreover, these folks (including non-athletes such as staff and coaches) are being tested to a hair-trigger standard.
What happens when you obsessively test people? You come up with a lot of positives that you would never otherwise have discovered, because while these people do have COVID, they’re not actually sick. They have no symptoms whatsoever. The Yankees who tested positive would in most cases never have found out they were infected if they weren’t members of the American aristocracy of pro athletes.
Moreover, while the vaccines make it highly unlikely that you’ll become infected, a misunderstood quality they also have is that even if you do suffer a “breakthrough” infection after being vaccinated, you almost certainly won’t get particularly ill. It’s possible that their vaccine doses got spoiled before they were taken, but what has happened is perfectly consistent with their having been vaccinated. One person, a coach, got mildly sick, then quickly recovered. And he was the hardest-hit person on the team. As the medical writer Zeynep Tufekci puts it:
They are all positive because of a common source, likely a highly infectious individual. These people all got a bit of the virus, and the virus was able to replicate just enough to be picked up by PCR tests that are very sensitive and can pick up even very small amounts. They are testing people three times a day with PCR tests! They’ll pick up anything and everything, even the tiniest viral amount. The virus was obviously stopped in its tracks, so almost everyone is without symptoms. That sounds like a great outcome to me.
If you’ve been vaccinated with any of the three approved treatments, you’ll be fine. The Yankees outbreak is meaningless.Jeopardy contestant Kelly Donohue (Screengrab via CBS Boston/YouTube)
There’s never a shortage of, “wow, some people’s political obsessions drive them to see the bogeyman everywhere they look” anecdotes, but Kyle is right, Ben Smith’s column in the New York Times today is a doozy, spotlighting the hundreds of former “Jeopardy” contestants who were absolutely convinced that a recent winner’s holding up three fingers was a white supremacist hand gesture. But there’s one eye-popping detail that deserves particular focus:
Then, two weeks later, the group finally heard back from the Anti-Defamation League, the Jewish civil rights group that is usually quick to call out anything with the faintest smell of bigotry. “Thank you for reaching out regarding your concern over a Jeapardy [sic] contestant flashing what you believed to be a white power hand signal,” wrote Aaron Ahlquist, of the A.D.L., according to text posted to the group by the contestant who had emailed the group. “We have reviewed the tape and it looks like he is simply holding up three fingers when they say he is a three-time champion. We do not interpret his hand signal to be indicative of any ideology. However, we are grateful to you for raising your concern, and please do not hesitate to contact us in the future should the need arise.” The A.D.L.’s response provoked fury among former contestants who had signed the letter. “Is anyone else feeling gaslit?” asked one two-time champion, according to the screenshots. “We saw it. We know we did. But a lot of people (including the god***ed ADL) are telling us we didn’t. That’s some classic gaslighting.”
Do these guys really think the Anti-Defamation League is in the business of denying and covering up white supremacy? How on earth could anyone believe that the ADL watched the tape, recognized a white supremacist gesture, and then chose to “gaslight” those complaining about it? What, the ADL’s been turned? They’ve been a deep, deep, deep cover double agent the whole time, just waiting for the right moment to help a racist get away with a hand gesture on a television game show?
Advertisement
This is the classic “anyone who denies the existence of the conspiracy must be part of the conspiracy” thinking.
This anecdote also illustrates how the term “gaslight” really doesn’t mean anything any more. Yes, sometimes malevolent and shamelessly dishonest people will lie to you, and then if you question their lies, they will deny them and try to make you feel like you’re going crazy. But if you’re crazy, and you say things that are crazy, lots of people will tell you that what you are saying is crazy. That’s not “gaslighting,” that’s just a reassertion of reality.Google CEO Sundar Pichai (center) and Daniel Sank with one of Google’s Quantum Computers at a laboratory in Santa Barbara, Calif., October 2019. (Google/Handout via Reuters)
New legislation would provide a massive funding boost to the National Science Foundation — but Congress needs to think through its implications.
In a rare show of bipartisanship, the Senate Commerce Committee last week voted 24–4 to advance legislation that would massively increase funding for technology-oriented research at the National Science Foundation. The bill, known as the Endless Frontier Act, is a particular favorite of Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer (D., N.Y.). But the basic idea behind it has broad support across party lines, particularly as a way to respond to China’s growing technological prowess. It may get a vote on the Senate floor as soon as this week, and in some form it has a pretty good shot at ultimately getting enacted.
Advertisement
But “in some form” is no small caveat. The committee markup made clear that the particular shape and scope of the bill are very much in flux. They may well change again on the floor, and surely will in negotiations with the House, where a related but different measure has already been taken up.
It’s a good thing that the details remain unsettled. The idea behind the legislation is a good one, broadly speaking. But legislation cannot stop at speaking broadly, and in several important respects the Senate bill risks mistakes that could do real harm.
Advertisement
The bill has many parts, but at its core as originally envisioned has been a proposal to inject more than $100 billion into the budget of the National Science Foundation over the coming five years to support technology-oriented research in areas such as artificial intelligence, semiconductors, quantum computing, biotechnology, energy research, and others. That kind of funding would be a massive boost to the agency’s budget, which was $8.5 billion this past year.
The NSF supports vital basic research, and providing it with more resources to do that makes a lot of sense. But that kind of immense infusion of money would be transformative in ways that have to be thought through. Three questions in particular are worth considering in advance. They involve the culture of the NSF, the existing array of federal-research investments, and the pace of new funding. The first two are clearly already on the minds of some legislators, but the third and most crucial seems not yet to be.
Science or Technology?
The first question has to do with the effect of the proposed funding increase on the National Science Foundation’s core mission. The architects of the Senate bill want to channel a lot of its resources toward the creation of a new directorate for technology research at NSF. At this point, the NSF has seven research directorates: biological sciences, computer science, engineering, geosciences, mathematical and physical sciences, social sciences, and education and human resources. All of these divisions focus mostly on basic rather than applied research. In this century, they have delved a bit more into translational research and some technological applications, but they still stay out of real mission-directed sorts of R&D work of the kind envisioned in the bill.
My American Enterprise Institute colleague Tony Mills, the Right’s foremost scholar of science policy, has noted that this emphasis on basic science has always been the essence of the NSF’s mission, but that there have been efforts to change that ever since the agency’s founding in the earliest years of the Cold War. Those efforts have been moved by a sentiment like the one that now prevails in Congress: To maintain our edge in the world, we need strategically directed technological innovation, not just advances in theoretical research. But the NSF is built on the understanding that technological innovation has to be rooted in basic science, and that advances in basic science are more in need of the kind of investment that only public support can sustain.
Advertisement
The enormous new investment in applied research and technology that is envisioned in the Endless Frontier Act presents itself as less transformational than those past efforts to remake the NSF. It is intended to come alongside the agency’s existing commitments to basic science, not in place of them. But the culture of the institution would unavoidably be transformed by that kind of infusion, and it is crucial to ask whether this is desirable.
The NSF is distinct for its commitment to basic research, and over the years it has supported lines of inquiry that could not have been justified in terms of practical application but that nonetheless proved enormously important both for the advancement of knowledge and for the development of applications that might not have been envisioned in advance. If it were gradually transformed into a funding agency for strategically prioritized technological projects, it would lose its unique purpose and distinct value. It is far from clear that the gain in technological development could make up for that loss, or whether a large investment in technology-oriented research might not be better housed elsewhere in the federal bureaucracy to avoid deforming the NSF’s essential work.
The Right Agency?
This points to the second question legislators should consider: Wouldn’t this immense new investment in the NSF be duplicative of efforts already underway elsewhere in the federal government, or at least be better placed elsewhere?
Advertisement
The most obvious place where such efforts are underway is in the system of 17 national laboratories. These labs conduct their own research, which NSF does not, but they also support outside research and would like to do more of that. Although they are nominally operated by the Department of Energy, the labs work on a broad range of research in the natural and physical sciences, and their emphasis in many cases is on precisely the kind of strategically significant technological advancement that the new bill envisions. They exist to direct R&D toward national goals, which is exactly what the Endless Frontier Act is trying to encourage, but not at all what the National Science Foundation exists to do.
The system of national labs is also designed strategically in a different sense: The labs are spread throughout the country in a way that has given them real political prowess in Congress. There is one, for instance, in Morgantown, W.Va. — a fact we can be sure is well known to the Senate’s most powerful member just now. Others are distributed in influential states in a pattern that is likely to prove important.
Advertisement
The funding envisioned by the Endless Frontier Act might not only be duplicative of some of what these labs do, it might also be irresistibly attractive to the labs, and given their political prowess we should not be surprised if they end up gobbling up large portions of it by the time the bill gets a final vote. Last week’s committee markup already provided some serious evidence of that. Resisting that tendency would require a real case for the need to direct this money through a new funding channel at the NSF rather than through existing ones elsewhere — and it’s not clear that any such case has been made, or could be.
Advertisement
In this respect, the committee markup moved the bill in a good direction, even if not quite for the best reasons. Pressure from some senators (especially those with national labs in their states) led to passage of an amendment dividing the massive infusion of dollars between the proposed new technology directorate and more traditional NSF investments in basic science, and then the former portion was again divided between that new NSF directorate and the existing system of national labs. This was an example of legislative bargaining rooted in classic interest-group pressures plainly improving a legislative proposal by better rooting it in the real world.
When the bill reaches the Senate floor, however, there may well be some pressure from its original architects to restore its scope and focus. We can be sure the question will come up again in negotiations with the House. Legislators thinking through these pressures should consider not only the political power of the labs but also the logic of the existing structure of federal R&D investment. Getting the balance right could make the difference between transformational investments and a lot of wasted public dollars.
Too Much Too Fast?
The third question that legislators need to wrestle with is the most important, and also the most complex and counter-intuitive. It has to do with the pace of increased funding. A number of champions of the Endless Frontier Act have pointed to the doubling of the National Institutes of Health budget over a five-year period in the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush years as a model for what they hope to do. But that model offers cautionary lessons as well as encouraging ones.
The NIH budget was doubled between 1998 and 2003, in an effort spanning four Congresses and two presidents, and spearheaded by a broad and bipartisan group of legislators. Those members of Congress, and both Clinton and Bush, saw the rapid doubling of the budget as a means of expressing the country’s commitment to medical research, and spurring vital biomedical innovation. It was an impressive and effective effort, and it has surely borne some fruit since that time.
Advertisement
But in retrospect, it is clear that the doubling of the budget happened much too quickly, and that this did genuine harm to the very biomedical-research enterprise it was intended to help. The steep growth in spending, roughly 15 percent per year for five years, built expectations and momentum that set the NIH up for disappointment when the doubling was done. Academic research institutions used the added funds to start new projects, support many more graduate students, and establish more programs and labs. But these all required continuing support beyond the five-year doubling period, which meant that once the steep increases were done and the NIH budget returned to normal growth rates of about 3 percent per year, an enormous portion of the (now much larger) budget went towards continuing support for projects established in the fat years, and not enough was left to fund new ventures or support the careers of all those new scientists.
The resulting pain has worked through the system by now, and at this point you’d surely have to say that the doubling of the budget was very beneficial on the whole. But that pain was real, and led to real setbacks and deformations in American biomedicine that the physical sciences should not now want to emulate.
This was first brought home to me in the mid 2000s. I was a policy staffer in the Bush White House working on health issues, and so it often fell to me to meet with delegations of prominent research scientists interested in talking about public support for their work. The University of California system was especially good at getting their scientists on our schedule at the White House, but many other elite research institutions did too. And from the outset I was stunned by the tone of these meetings: These prominent and generously funded researchers were bitter and angry. They had nothing but complaints about the support they were getting from the NIH, and they were also deeply worried about the prospects of their most promising projects and students.
At first, I couldn’t understand it. The work these researchers were doing was not only lavishly funded but much more lavishly funded than it had been just a few years earlier. The Office of Management and Budget has a very fine-grained database of NIH funds, so I got into the habit of going into these meetings with an OMB chart showing the trajectory of public dollars supporting the work of the particular researcher I would be meeting with. When he or she launched into a tirade, I would take that chart out of my notebook and point to what was often on the order of a 70 percent increase in funding over the prior few years for the very work this person had come to talk about.
Advertisement
I thought this was very clever. But the scientists were rarely fazed by it, and went right on complaining. And while at first I took this to be evidence of a staggering sense of entitlement, I came to realize over time that they were actually right. They had been encouraged by the rapid doubling of the budget to make all kinds of investments and launch a variety of projects, and when the doubling was over, they felt like they’d been thrown into a wall. The rhetorical and political logic of doubling the budget in five years failed to take account of how academic research actually works, and at least in the short term it was harming precisely the kinds of elite researchers and cutting-edge projects it was meant to help.
It’s hard to overstate the damage this did to the morale of American biomedical science in the mid 2000s. Researchers watching fledgling projects crumble became convinced they were being targeted by anti-science politicians even though those very politicians had just doubled their budgets.
I would argue, for instance, that this dynamic contributed enormously to the bizarre tone of the embryonic-stem-cell debates of that era. Cell biology had been a particularly prominent beneficiary of the doubling of the budget, and so was high among the victims of the sudden deceleration. And the resulting morale hit drove some prominent researchers to leap into politics in ways that abandoned all professional responsibility. They were soon being used by politicians to back up all kinds of unfounded claims about the state and the potential of stem-cell research, and allowed themselves to be dragged into stunningly unprofessional and just frankly disgraceful forms of politicization, dishonesty, and outright charlatanism — all the while using ill patients as props and lying to people who were desperate for hope. Two decades later, those false promises look worse than ridiculous, and the people involved have long since stopped talking that way, but they have never explained their behavior. The dynamic of the budget expansion doesn’t excuse that behavior. Nothing could excuse it. But it does, I think, help to explain some of it.
This lesson of that era applies directly to the Senate’s Endless Frontier Act and its companion legislative measures in the House. Here, too, Congress is looking to massively increase funding for a set of academic research enterprises over a five-year period in a way that fails to account for the basic structure and dynamics of academic research. Expanded funding should grow slowly but over a longer period of time, to allow for new projects to not only start but also be sustained, and to make it possible for new cohorts of researchers to find their places in the scientific community.
Advertisement
Slower growth would also make it possible for funding to reach beyond the small cadre of elite institutions that would be able immediately to digest a huge influx of dollars. Here, too, the NIH experience is illuminating. While the size of the average NIH grant grew significantly during the five-year doubling of the agency’s budget, the pool of institutions receiving funding hardly changed at all. As the Chronicle of Higher Education found in reviewing lists of NIH grantees in the wake of the doubled budget, of the 515 institutions receiving direct grants to investigators in 2003, only five had not been receiving such grants prior to 1998. Moreover, the portion of grants going to the top 100 research institutions in 2003 was 92 percent, exactly the same as it was in 1998. In other words, more NIH funding meant more money for the same relatively small group of ultra-elite institutions, and even there it contributed to a surplus of new projects and researchers that quickly became burdensome once the growth spurt ended.
Deformed growth of that sort could do real damage to the kinds of technology-oriented research that legislators are looking to spur with this bill. That doesn’t argue against the added funding they envision, but it argues for considering how that infusion of dollars will affect the research culture it seeks to strengthen.
Matching Means to Ends
The Endless Frontier Act is moving quickly. But even if the Senate approves a version of it this week, it will still need to be merged with a House bill and reconsidered at least one more time. As that happens, it’s important that legislators in both houses carefully think through the implications of how they’re designing this effort. They are right to want to give American R&D a boost, particularly with a wary eye toward China. But what form that boost should take will matter enormously.
While old-fashioned logrolling and interest-group politics has actually improved the original proposal already, further improvements will require serious attention to the nature of the research culture involved. Legislators should consider whether they want to fundamentally transform the character of the National Science Foundation, whether there might not be other more suitable channels for funding, and how the growth they envision could support and foster an expanded academic research enterprise rather than distort its incentives and undermine its morale.Angelina Jolie in Those Who Wish Me Dead. (Warner Bros. Pictures)
Taylor Sheridan’s Angelina Jolie-fronted thriller Those Who Wish Me Dead burns through every B-movie cliché.
In his Oscar-nominated script for Hell or High Water (2016), Taylor Sheridan showed a promising ability to meld a smart action-thriller and a message movie. The picture was a tale of bank robbers given no choice but to take matters into their own hands because of the 2008 banking crisis. (Hey, who’s the real thief?) It was a corny idea, but stylishly developed, and the movie’s dialogue was notably punchy.
Advertisement
Now a writer-director, Sheridan has taken a huge step backward into the realm of B-movie hackery. His new one, a theatrical and HBO Max release, is called Those Who Wish Me Dead, a trying-too-hard-to-be-exciting title that presages the stupidity to follow. You go with a title like that when your ambition is to capture the attention of someone rummaging through the bin of generic $5 DVDs at Walmart.
Based on a novel by Michael Koryta and adapted for the screen by him, Charles Leavitt, and Sheridan, the movie strives for Jerry Bruckheimer’s air of macho one-upmanship, but offers none of the slickness that Bruckheimer always brings to the party. Anyone who thinks a Bruckheimer blockbuster is easy to pull off should consult this movie for unassailable proof to the contrary.
Angelina Jolie plays Hannah, a tough-but-tender Montana smoke jumper with a tragic past. Are there a lot of 45-year-old women who parachute into the middle of fires? Shrug. Jolie has raided tombs; I guess she can take the heat. Hannah is a whiskey-swilling, tough-talking hellcat of a guys’ girl surrounded by swaggering, brawny dudes who wish they were half as tough as she is. But they’re also secretly protective of her feelings about her guilty secret, which turns out to be as generic and thinly developed as every other idea in this movie.
Advertisement
In faraway Florida, two stone-cold hired killers (Aidan Gillen and Nicholas Hoult) who are also expert trackers, masters of disguise, and brilliant computer hackers are on the trail of a clever “forensic accountant” (Jake Weber) whose tech proves to be so hackable I suspect his password is “password.” After a D.A. gets murdered, Owen the accountant correctly suspects that he’s next on the kill list, so he takes his little boy Connor (Finn Little) and flees in their car, unable to go to the police because of some all-pervasive political corruption that the script never bothers to explain. Their boss is played by Tyler Perry, in a one-scene cameo that is completely superfluous to the action and as such is more or less inexplicable, unless you assume Perry is a pal of somebody involved in the production and said, “I’ve got some free time. Can you write a part for me?”
Based on nothing but a wild guess, the killers instantly figure out that the accountant and his son have driven to Montana to meet up with a relative, a wily sheriff (Jon Bernthal) who runs a survivalist camp with his equally resourceful wife (Medina Senghore), who is heavily pregnant. (Best unintentionally funny line in the movie: One of the killers asks, “You pregnant?” Er, no, she just enjoys wearing a basketball under her T-shirt.) When the accountant’s son has to hightail it through the woods with the killers on his trail, he runs into Hannah, who by sheer coincidence also happens to be the sheriff’s ex-girlfriend.
Advertisement
To cover up for a total lack of interesting plot or characters, Sheridan lashes together tough-guy dialogue, bloody shootouts, hair-raising escapes, and, when all else fails, massive blazes. In order to divert attention from their actions, the killers casually start a gigantic forest fire. Sheridan evidently hopes to create a diversion of his own, distracting the audience from the junk pile of clichés on offer with lots of footage of forests burning and what the stuntmen call “fire gags,” the kind of cheap spectacle that was already stale by the middle of the Reagan administration. Midway through the movie, when the emotionally scarred kid reveals to his emotionally scarred protector that his mother died of cancer, which frames her as his replacement mom, the script is practically shouting, “We’re desperate to make you feel something, and this is the best we could do.” What I felt without interruption was boredom.
Hannah, discovering her nurturing side, coaches the boy in survival tactics and helpfully offers tips on how to evade forest fires by ducking under water — a fine strategy, assuming you can hold your breath until the blaze burns itself out. Pursuing them through the flames, the hit men who were so hyper-competent at the outset of the movie become increasingly error-prone for no particular reason, except that having smart guys turn stupid is the easiest way to wrap things up. As he has proven on everything from The Wire to Game of Thrones, Gillen makes for an exceptionally contemptible baddie. But I’d lost all respect for his wickedness by the end of this movie. Really, villains, when you’re about to dispatch someone but manage to get distracted and conked on the head because someone behind you says, “Hey!” you ought to be forced to attend a remedial course in villainy.
﻿From left: Face (Dirk Benedict), Murdock (Dwight Schultz), Smith (George Peppard), and B.A. (Mr. T) in The A-Team. (The A-Team/via YouTube)
The series holds up after all these years, its sustained appeal representing a certain cultural victory.
We tend to be ashamed of our childhood heroes. I, in particular, idolized a fair number of idiots. However, my admiration for The A-Team remains intact over the years. My childhood would have been much duller without Murdock, Face, B. A., and Hannibal Smith — may he rest in peace. Now, I’ve rewatched the series and understood why it has stood the test of time much better than the poems I wrote to my first girlfriend. Those four madmen were a cornucopia of values: loyalty, justice, kindness, patriotism, freedom, and a fine sense of humor. They also exhibited a very justifiable skepticism about the goodness of the government. It was everything I miss in today’s television and, almost always, in society too. And in politics. Oddly enough, there is much we can still learn from The A-Team. And I don’t mean how to make bazookas out of pipes and lettuce.
Advertisement
The whole series was dreamt up by Stephen J. Cannell and Frank Lupo (Lupo passed away in Florida last February from cardiac arrest). Both poured not only their talent into the show, but also their moral code, something Cannell always attributed to his parents’ strong Christian convictions. The A-Team is more than the sentimental biography of several generations. It is also our moral biography. From it, I learned to keep calm, smile, and light a cigar every time the enemy locks me in a shed and threatens to kill me. Life is better that way. You know: Be happy. It disconcerts the enemy.
Advertisement
From these four men, we learned never to cooperate with evil. On one occasion in my own life, I learned in a bar that someone was hatching a dirty scheme to force my dismissal from a company, quite unfairly. Far from succumbing to discouragement, I lit a cigarette, put on my best smile, ordered a round for my confidants, and we toasted to the future — moments after I called my boss and quit. I felt like Hannibal when he smiles at the camera as everything explodes behind him.
My attempts to emulate Face were less fortunate. More than once, I tried to get out of my tedious gym classes under the most diverse pretexts. While enjoying a rare lucky streak one day, I decided it would be a good idea to pretend that I had suffered a terrible injury. My strategy failed because I invented a muscle that doesn’t exist and my teacher — oh dear me — was also a doctor. These things happened to Face too, I thought, to console my humiliation.
Advertisement
As for the other characters, Murdock would suddenly come to his senses when his friends were in danger, and B. A. could not bear the suffering of the weak. His rudeness was a front. Even in spite of the constant bickering between the two, in the episode where Murdock is badly wounded and dying, B. A. whispers in his ear, “Come on, hang in there. I like your crazy stuff.”
No other country in the world could have made The A-Team. It is a distinctly American product. Without patriotism and the values woven into the American flag, their loyalties, their commitment to freedom and justice, and their determination to always be on the side of good, honest folk could not be understood. Pursued by the military police, there is an episode in which the team helps an army corporal. To the girl’s surprise, Hannibal explains his ideology in a single sentence: “Miss, there are many people who think badly of us, including the army, but if a rogue appears selling weapons and also killing fellow soldiers, we are as patriotic as the Pentagon.”
Advertisement
On another occasion, a religious group that did not approve of their use of violence hired them. Mobsters wanted to drive the religious group out of their camp to take over their land. Hannibal, respectful of the group’s beliefs, promised to act without shooting or fighting, but the A-Team fails and has to hand out a few slaps. Not too many, but the client, appalled, fires them. When they are on their way home after abandoning the mission, the colonel decided to backtrack: They would return, no longer as mercenaries, but just to pass the time, to beat up the bad guys. Face thought it was madness and a waste of time, but, once in combat, he was the first one to defend the cause for which they were no longer going to be paid.
They were, without a doubt though, mercenaries. Life unwittingly placed them on the fringes of the law. But there are many occasions in which they accepted missions for clients who didn’t have the means to pay them, because once again, in The A-Team, there is something intrinsically linked to American values: helping those who suffer injustice at the hands of thugs.
They themselves were the victims of injustice, accused of a crime they had not committed. This ease of conscience permeated the whole storyline, and that soon awakened the audience’s complicity. While the antagonists, Colonels Decker and Lynch, persecuted the team more to bolster their own egos than to pursue the law, and are often moved by hatred, there was no trace of resentment against them among the four protagonists.
Hannibal, for his part, simply seemed to get a kick out of thwarting Decker’s attempts to catch him. And here we have another life lesson: to distinguish between enemies. There are bad guys, and then there are those who are simply mistaken. For instance, the military police, whom the A-Team always defeated but who showed certain signs of complicity, usually end up cooperating by helping to catch mobsters and other bad guys. It is impossible not to be reminded of G. K. Chesterton’s words: “The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him”.
Advertisement
Worshipping violence is easy, and on television, you can make things look more horrible than in reality. The action movies of the last 40 years prove it. The A-Team though, simply didn’t go for it. The bad guys never died. Even after they’d flipped over 200 times, they’d come out of the flaming car, dazed but alive. It would have been more plausible for the bad guys to die, but it would have been less fun.
Advertisement
Our heroes, however, were not angels. They were deeply human. Murdock was a basket case and could be a real pain in the ass; Face could spoil any plan if a pretty girl got in the way, and would always do his best to keep his suit tidy; B. A. suffered from a pathological bad temper, although that was perhaps his only vice; and as for Hannibal, despite his old colonel’s diligence, his arrogance would often make life complicated. The characters were so well woven that all these defects only succeeded in awakening sympathy and laughter in the spectator.
Unfortunately, the last season was a disaster. The writers decided to bet everything on action with no comedy, and they subjected the A-Team to a police protectorate. Naturally, the audience was crushed. Since then, despite being a cult series for millions of viewers, everything we’ve heard about our heroes has been confusing. We’ve heard that the actors got along terribly and that the real characters were not as wonderful as the fictional ones. That’s not exactly the case either. Progressive do-gooderism has also tried to undermine the show’s legacy. All things considered, Face didn’t like boys, B. A. despised vegans, Hannibal’s plans weren’t exactly carbon-neutral, and Murdock’s greatest folly was his love of America. Netflix wouldn’t give a dime for something like that.
Context is important. George Peppard (who played Hannibal) was the only one who was already a big star when the series was launched. It stands to reason that he might have acted with a certain arrogance, amending scripts on a whim. Perhaps that tension between management and Peppard himself helped make the series better. His co-stars say that he would often arrive on set and cross out half a script from that day’s shoot, saying, “This is all I’m going to say, man.” And the rest of them had to adapt. I don’t think that’s necessarily a flaw.
What is certain is that George Peppard was not an easy guy to work with. Dwight Schultz (who played Murdock) joked about it. When they met in the dressing room on the first day, Peppard held out his hand and said, “Hi, I’m George Peppard and I’m not a very nice guy.” That cynicism of the character, which made him so cool, was not a pose. Neither was Face’s gentlemanly style — just look at him today! — B. A.’s competitive spirit, or Murdock’s madness and brilliant sense of humor. As for Peppard’s fights with B. A., there was a logical competition of egos. Hannibal was the show’s star and B. A. had become popular with children.
Peppard’s own view of The A-Team on British television years later confirms all the keys to the success of the series:
I think the A-Team are the worst shots in the world. But it is good, because it tells everybody we’re out for fun, there’s going to be no blood, there’s going to be no horror, you know what we intend, you know we don’t like the bad guys, and we do defeat them. It also gave us some leeway into farce, because basically, the best thing about The A-Team to me is when you have something utterly ridiculous that’s treated with absolute seriousness, and when we did that well, I thought we were very funny.
A few weeks ago, I conducted an experiment: I put the series on for a group of children between six and ten years old. I thought they would get bored within the first minute. Ten episodes later, they’re still begging me to sit down and watch the next episode, they’re playing the A-Team at the playground, and they’ve forgotten all about their deplorable monster dolls or their school’s gender-role-swapping games. Now they know what it’s like to fight for the moral code they inherited from their elders, and it’s more fun for them than the woke stuff, or Disney’s phony sentimentality.
I never thought that the great American cultural battle would consist, after all’s said and done, of sitting and watching television for a while.Jane Austen portrait, 1870. (Public Domain/via Wikimedia)
Instead of dragging a great author into the cultural disputes of our present moment, we should seek her guidance in how to transcend them.
A simple, straight-forward person thrust into a complex, sometimes threatening world: This type of plot can generate a great deal of comedy, but also anxiety and foreboding, as Jane Austen knew well. It is the basic design of her Northanger Abbey, in which the 17-year-old naïf Catherine Morland must make her way through a glitzy, but dangerous, society in Bath. As we read, we laugh frequently, but the humor comes along with a faint sense of dread: Will Catherine pass through the depredations and dissemblings of society unscathed?
Advertisement
In our own day, a parallel drama is from time to time reenacted, but with Jane Austen herself as the protagonist. While no thoughtful person would call her naïve, Austen’s small scale and carefully limited range give her a kind of simplicity not unlike Catherine Morland’s, so that, when she is unwittingly carried into today’s political struggles, it is both hilarious and discomfiting. The latest such plot is set in the British village of Chawton, where the novelist lived in a modest, two-story brick home, now the Jane Austen House, her dedicated museum. Within the last few weeks, the museum’s director, Lizzie Dunford, has spread the word of a planned public exhibit on “Black Lives Matter to Austen,” as well as a “reviewing and updating” of the museum’s interpretation of Austen’s views on race and colonialism. Shortly thereafter, The Telegraph ran an incendiary take — “Jane Austen’s tea drinking will face ‘historical interrogation’ over slavery links” — and the culture war had been reengaged. Both sides have played to type.
Now, the first requisite is to call this event what it is: a tempest in a teapot. As Alexander Larman and others have made clear, there is vanishingly little in Austen that touches on any issue of racial justice — really only one stray line from Mansfield Park — which means that the dispute is more about subtext than text. According to a 30-year-old theory of Edward Said, Mansfield Park’s one mention of Caribbean slavery nods at the fact that the whole plot of the novel is made possible by a culture of racist imperialism. The story of a few Caucasians’ vicissitudes in love is tacitly underwritten by slave labor overseas. Most recent progressive critiques are inheritors of Said’s argument. On the other hand, conservatives generally blow off the post-colonial reading as forced, then defend Austen as a subtle proponent of traditional moral norms concerning marriage, social order, and so forth. For the progressive Austen critics, the racial equity of her implied political economy is fundamental, while for the conservatives, her traditional model of family and social life is key. In other words, the two sides use her as a proxy site for today’s moral and political disputes, and the whole noisy affair seems to float free of the novels themselves. Austen walks through our culture wars like Catherine Morland through Bath.
Advertisement
What, then, to make of the kerfuffle? Now that the same old things have been said, what fresh sort of response can be made? I propose that we take our cue from Austen herself: Her own way of responding will open up ours.
Advertisement
In understanding Austen’s reply to a conflicted, conflicting world, the analogy of the martyrs is instructive. In the profoundest sense, the words and deeds of a martyr say to her society that there is a higher world, a world that works according to a logic superior to that of this sublunary sphere. Just so, perhaps Jane Austen’s most important response to our culture wars is her quiet witness to another, higher order of existence. The greatness of Austen is (at least in part) her extraordinary, fine-grained depiction of the drama of the heart: How does one go about making the greatest choices of one’s life? What are the characteristic steps and missteps through which we go in trying to judge another person’s character or intentions? What sort of life and habits enable a person to make more trustworthy decisions where love is involved? In the first half of Pride and Prejudice, Elizabeth Bennet makes a whole, interconnected set of misjudgments about Mr. Darcy because she has gotten his story wrong. She has gotten his story wrong because she has misunderstood his character, and that misunderstanding in turn rests upon character flaws of her own. She is just trying to make it through life and find a good sort of lover, and it is all so rich and complicated (in addition to being laugh-out-loud funny). When Darcy’s climactic letter sets her straight on the story, and thus his character, the reversal truly staggers her ill-founded confidence: “Till this moment, I never knew myself.”
The tale of Elizabeth and Darcy (or Emma and Knightly, or Elinor and Edward Ferrars) is not soupy, escapist melodrama, but a tightly focused, sharply insightful picture of a plot we are all deeply invested in: the inner, intimate drama of choice, where highest things are at stake. We go to these narratives again and again, not just for titillation or period aesthetics, but for the tremendous clarity and wit with which Austen sees the weightiest moments of our lives. It is not the case that politics has nothing to do with these comedies and tragedies of choice. Rather, politics exists (in great part) for the sake of these dramas, to clear space and establish the possibility of their successful unfolding. The ambient culture, with all its strifes and political conditions, enables the “truth universally acknowledged” about love and life to pursue its delicate, all-important way. Jane Austen’s response to our culture wars, then, is her shining witness to their raison d’être.
Advertisement
But where does this leave us now, amid the clamor of voices, left and right? Austen’s example suggests a simple rule for our treatment of others, including our treatment of those we read: Never reduce a person to the conditions of her existence. Jane Austen, like all of us, follows out a story within a social, political, civilizational frame, but she — like every person — is startlingly irreducible to that frame. Yes, her plots complexly relate (like our own) to a backdrop of real and excruciating injustices in the world economy. Yes, they presume (again, like our own) a whole set of traditional moral objectives. But to boil another person down to this or that political principle is absurd, violent, and inhuman, for it is of the essence of persons to transcend the sum of their parts. Jane Austen rises above her conditions, and even her beliefs, to say what she has to say, do what she has to do. The wonder of us persons is that we are all these things, and yet we are also more.
There is a place for talking about Austen’s politics, and for “interrogating” her subtexts. She has them, after all. Our desire as human beings is to be taken both at face value, and as rooted. Let us, then, talk about the history, economics, dynamics of culture, while also allowing her to transcend them. If that is not possible, then the lives we all know we are living right now are not possible.Oklahoma governor Kevin Stitt during a roundtable discussion with governors and small business owners on the reopening of America’s small businesses in Washington, D.C., June 2020. (Wikimedia Commons)
Oklahoma governor Kevin Stitt, a Republican, was removed from the commission overseeing the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre on Friday after he signed a bill banning critical race theory in the state’s schools.
“The 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commissioners met Tuesday and agreed through consensus to part ways with Governor Stitt,” the commission said in a statement on Friday.
Advertisement
It adds that the commission “is disheartened to part ways with Governor Stitt” but “thankful for the things accomplished together.”
Elected officials and representatives of elected officials were not involved in the decision, according to the statement.
The ouster comes after commission project manager Phil Armstrong last week rebuked Stitt for signing a bill that prohibits the teaching of critical race theory.
Critical race theory “presupposes that racism is embedded within society and institutions.” The theory’s implementation in classrooms nationwide has drawn outcry from parents, some of whom have received emails from their children’s schools about “Decentering Whiteness at Home” or have elementary-school aged children who have been read “a book about whiteness” that suggests “color matters” and encourages them to dissect “the painful truth” about their “own family,” regarding potential racist behavior.
Stitt signed the legislation on Friday, saying, “Now more than ever, we need policies that bring us together, not rip us apart.”
Armstrong claimed the law is “diametrically opposite to the mission of the Centennial Commission and reflects your desire to end your affiliation,” according to The Associated Press.
A spokeswoman for the governor told the AP he became aware of his removal when the announcement was made on Friday. She added that Stitt’s role was “purely ceremonial and he had not been invited to attend a meeting until this week.”
However, Armstrong said Stitt failed to attend a meeting on Monday to discuss the new critical-race-theory law, leaving the group “gravely disappointed,” according to a letter the commission sent to the governor on Tuesday.
Advertisement
Meanwhile, State Representative Monroe Nichols, a Democrat, resigned from the commission Tuesday, saying the governor’s signing of the bill “cast an ugly shadow on the phenomenal work done over the last five years.”
The commission organizes events in observance of the anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre, in which a white mob torched 30 blocks of black-owned businesses, homes and churches on May 31 and June 1 of 1921. The massacre, which occurred in Tulsa’s Greenwood neighborhood, known as “Black Wall Street,” left nearly 300 dead and roughly 800 wounded.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.St. Athanasius Catholic Church in Brooklyn, N.Y., 2014. (Wikimedia Commons)
Vandals toppled a statue of Jesus and burned an American flag outside a Catholic church in Brooklyn, N.Y. in a possible hate crime, authorities said.
The vandal reportedly jumped the fence at St. Athanasius Church in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn around 10 p.m. on Thursday, according to the New York Post. The suspect then tipped over a statue of Jesus’ crucifixion, smashing it to pieces, and set an American flag hanging outside the rectory aflame, police said.
Advertisement
Monsignor David Cassato, the church’s pastor, discovered the damage on Friday morning and reported it to the NYPD, according to a statement from the Diocese of Brooklyn.
The NYPD’s Hate Crime Task Force is investigating.
“This was truly an act of hatred, and today is the saddest day of my twenty years here at this parish,” Cassato said in a statement.
The crucifix, which was installed in memory of Cassato’s mother, had been a fixture at the church since 2010.
“I went over and spoke to the students in the school about what happened, telling them that hate never wins,” Cassato said. “We are, and must be, a community that continues to share the message of Easter, that which is of love, hope, and forgiveness.”
The parish plans to repair and reinstall the Crucifix in the same location.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.(Fydorov/Getty Images)
Every time I see NHLers such as Alex Ovechkin become Vladimir Putin sycophants, or former players participate in these propagandistic hockey exhibitions Russia likes to put on — a preening Vlad netting eight goals the other day though he can barely skate — I think of Jaroslav Jiřík. For a few years during the 1990s, I had the pleasure of knowing the first hockey player from the Eastern Block to officially be allowed to play in the NHL. Jiřík, who spent the majority of his time in North America in the minors, was called up by the St. Louis Blues for three games in the 1969–1970 season, before going back to his hometown of Brno.
Advertisement
When I met Jiřík, he was working as a scout for an NHL player agent in the Czech Republic. His real passion, though, was flying and building planes. And when I say “planes,” I mean homemade flying contraptions. At least, that’s what they sounded like when he described them to me. Over the years, Jiřík would have numerous close calls, as his rickety inventions fell from the sky, making emergency landings on highways and farms. So, when I saw a headline about his passing in 2011, I immediately assumed — it turns out, correctly — that it was a crash that had killed him.
Jiřík, though, was best known in his home country for playing in one of the greatest series in hockey history: the Czechoslovakian national team’s victory over the Soviet Union at the World Championship in Stockholm in March 1969. The games, only seven months after the end of the Prague Spring, were nasty, physical affairs imbued with all kinds of symbolism. After beating the Soviets in the first game without Jiřík, the Czechoslovakians refused to shake hands with their opponents (a longtime hockey tradition.) This small, but courageous, post-game act of protest — Soviet Block players weren’t going to get $30-million deals from Nike, though their careers might be over — was censored on Czechoslovakian television and radio, so fans didn’t know it happened. In the next game, however, Jiřík, back in the lineup, would be one of five players — and according to some sources, the first (though he brushed me off when I asked him about this) — to cover the red star on the communist Czechoslovakia’s emblem with black tape during the game. Jiřík’s team went on to beat the Soviets again, 4–3. Prague exploded in celebration and protest with chants of “Russians go home!” and “No tanks were there so they lost.” They’d have to wait another 20 years for the Velvet Revolution.Elijah Wood stars in the Lord of the Rings movie trilogy. (New Line Productions, Inc./IMDb)
In a recent interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Amazon Studios head Jennifer Salke was asked about the enormous price tag of the Lord of the Rings TV series Amazon has in the works:
Jen, there were reports about Lord of the Rings, which put the first-season budget at $465 million — making it the most expensive series ever. What does that price tag say about the market today, and how well will it need to do to justify that price tag? SALKE The market is crazy, as you saw with the Knives Out deal. [Netflix paid $469 million for two sequels.] This is a full season of a huge world-building show. The number is a sexy headline or a crazy headline that’s fun to click on, but that is really building the infrastructure of what will sustain the whole series. But it is a crazy world and various people on this Zoom, mostly Bela and me, have been in bidding situations where it starts to go incredibly high. There’s a lot of wooing and we have to make decisions on where we want to stretch and where we want to draw the line. As for how many people need to watch Lord of the Rings? A lot. (Laughs.) A giant, global audience needs to show up to it as appointment television, and we are pretty confident that that will happen.
I have two thoughts on this. One: Of course $465 million is a justifiable sum to spend on a Lord of the Rings TV series. Realizing J. R. R. Tolkien’s incredible vision can, theoretically, be done on the cheap — just ask the Soviets! — but I am perfectly content with Amazon shoveling millions into this show, which I will definitely watch. If Amazon founder Jeff Bezos can blow $500 million of his billions on a boat, certainly this TV show is worth roughly the same sum. Money is not a guarantee of quality, though: The Peter Jackson Lord of the Rings trilogy cost less, on the whole, than his Hobbit trilogy, which was much worse.
Which brings us to my second thought: There is a lot in the phrase “giant, global audience.” If Salke just means she wants a lot of people to watch, great. Peter Jackson’s film trilogy from two decades back was, rightly, a global phenomenon as well. But if she’s saying that the material needs to be somehow substantively altered specifically for global appeal, I have concerns. Oftentimes these days, that means changing or outright excising elements so as to better appease the censors of the Chinese Communist Party. Given that this series will take place in a fictional universe, that will be a lot a harder to do. Likelier is that the series might compromise on the fundamental morality and decency of Tolkien’s work in an effort to broaden its appeal. There have already been worrying indications in that direction. But Lord of the Rings isn’t Game of Thrones, and it never should be; its “appeal” on its own terms is unquestionable. If it is Amazon’s intention to make it otherwise, well . . . it should expect shaken spears and splintered shields, at the very least.Believers attend the Orthodox Christmas Eve service at the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow, Russia, January 6, 2020. (Evgenia Novozhenina/Reuters)
If you’re going to read only one piece of writing this weekend, it should be this autobiographical essay by Paul Kingsnorth about his conversion to Orthodox Christianity, which is published in the June 2021 issue of First Things. Kingsnorth is one of England’s greatest living novelists, a fact which, if you didn’t already know, you’d be able to adduce from the quality of the prose on display in the aforementioned essay. His path to faith has been that of a restless seeker who has tried nearly every other way of relating to reality out for size. “This was how I ended up a priest of the witch gods,” he informs the reader at one point, after explaining why Zen Buddhism just wasn’t quite cutting it for him.
One of the most interesting and original aspects of Kingsnorth’s conversion story is the outsized role that environmentalism and economic history seem to have played in his becoming a Christian. These are not stepping stones to faith that one often hears referenced when reading or listening to the reasons that human beings habitually give for believing that Jesus of Nazareth is divine. But the theological analysis that Kingsnorth provides of our relationship with wealth, the natural world, and the divine is utterly compelling.
Here is how he describes the way in which the natural world captured his imagination as a 16-year-old atheist wandering through the English countryside:
Trudging across moors, camping by mountain lakes as the June sun set, I could feel some deep, old power rolling through it all, welding it together, flowing from the land into me and back again. With Wordsworth, I was dragged under by “A motion and a spirit, that impels / All thinking things, all objects of all thought / And rolls through all things.” Nothing humans could build could come close to the intense wonder and mystery of the natural world; I still believe that to be self-evidently true. This was my religion. Animism, pantheism, call it what you will: This was my pagan grace.
As Kingsnorth continues, “years of environmental activism followed,” spurred on by the observation that “the rebellion against God manifested itself in a rebellion against creation, against all nature, human and wild. We would remake Earth, down to the last nanoparticle, to suit our desires, which we now called ‘needs.’ Our new world would be globalized, uniform, interconnected, digitized, hyper-real, monitored, always-on. We were building a machine to replace God.” What Kingsnorth is getting at is the replacement of nature with technology, the basic project of modernity. As I wrote here in January:
Technology allows human beings to shape reality in such a way that it conforms to their own needs and desires. This is probably the most basic and generally applicable definition of the word that has held true over the centuries. Our primal ancestors were confronted everywhere and at all times by the basic indifference of the world to their own existence. Hunger, thirst, heat, cold, pain, and disease all taught them that nature doesn’t often conform itself to the needs and desires of Homo sapiens. Starting with the spear and the shelter, technology emerged as a method of taming, cajoling, and coercing nature to bend to the will of mankind, and so our task continued for millennia. During the agricultural revolution, we discovered techniques that allowed us to make the earth’s yield serve our needs, and something like civilization was born. But from that time until the 18th century, progress was slow and uneven. Every man, woman, and child ran into the brutal indifference of reality to their own appetites and aspirations at almost every moment of the day. The industrial revolution changed all that. A combination of free markets, cheap energy, and a population boom led to a quantum leap in technological advance. We seemed to accomplish more — shaping the world to suit us — with each passing decade than we had in the previous 10,000 years. The long-term social effects of the industrial revolution, and the civilization it brought forth, were investigated by one of the most important 20th-century thinkers, Jacques Ellul, in his book The Technological Society (published in French in 1954). Ellul believed that technology (which he included under the broader term technique) was the dominant ideology of the modern age, encompassing both capitalism and communism. The project of this ideology is essentially to replace nature with technology, so that human beings no longer have to bump up against any intractably resistant reality that might hamper the fulfillment of their desires.
The logical endpoint of technological development, as I pointed out later on in this piece “is virtual reality: a technological end-state in which no individual has to confront anything contrary to his own desires.” I further predicted that “the emergence of this kind of technology, and religious opposition to it, is likely to be the defining culture war of this century,” a claim I still stand by.
This modern project’s ultimate enemy is limitation. In fact it’s the lack of any limitations placed by humans upon their own desires that is the chief cause of Earth’s ecological woes and of our own mass unhappiness as a society. As Kingsnorth notes,
Early Green thinkers, people like Leopold Kohr or E. F. Schumacher, who were themselves inspired by the likes of Gandhi and Tolstoy, had taught us that the ecological crisis was above all a crisis of limits, or lack of them. Modern economies thrive by encouraging ever-increasing consumption of harmful junk, and our hyper-liberal culture encourages us to satiate any and all of our appetites in our pursuit of happiness. If that pursuit turns out to make us unhappy instead — well, that’s probably just because some limits remain un-busted. Following the rabbit hole down, I realized that a crisis of limits is a crisis of culture, and a crisis of culture is a crisis of spirit. Every living culture in history, from the smallest tribe to the largest civilization, has been built around a spiritual core: a central claim about the relationship between human culture, nonhuman nature, and divinity. Every culture that lasts, I suspect, understands that living within limits — limits set by natural law, by cultural tradition, by ecological boundaries — is a cultural necessity and a spiritual imperative. There seems to be only one culture in history that has held none of this to be true, and it happens to be the one we’re living in.
Technological capitalism is extremely proficient at producing all kinds of goods for human beings, but it is most proficient at producing desires. The manufacture of new desires is the real business of much of our modern economy. Advertising, for instance, exists, as an industry, to create in customers want and discontent where there might have been satisfaction and contentment with what one already has. This proliferation of desires is what makes us treat the planet as nothing but a standing reserve of natural resources ripe for exploitation — the raw material of an ever-receding goal of final satiation.
A spiritually centered society would be able to tame the free economy by way of virtue so that it becomes the servant, rather than the master, of man. The promise made by our credit cards that ringing them through the till once more time will bring us beatification is false, and a culture that unmasked this lie would perhaps be one finally capable of living within its financial means, avoiding economic, as well as ecological, devastation all the while.
Advertisement
But in the meantime, it is no surprise that secularization, crazy levels of debt (both private and public), and ecological devastation are all proceeding apace hand-in-hand in the modern world. We are all of us chasing desires that are multiplying and reproducing at a faster rate than we can attain them, and than our wallets — and planet Earth — can sustain them.
God, as it so happens, is the final and ultimate enemy of this proliferation of desires. At least as the Christian tradition understands Him, He informs all of us that He Himself is the source and end of every desire, and that every commodity promising satisfaction apart from Him is nothing but a tiresome ruse. Moreover, He asks every human being to take up His cross, which is hardly an appealing marketing pitch to prospective consumers. In fact, the story of the Incarnation is the story of a person descending from a world of perfect and impregnable love and voluntarily experiencing the most painful, bloody, and impersonal aspects of reality, purely for the sake of others. As an image of the good life, this is an exact photo-negative of the person who seeks to escape from the harsh realities of the real world into a virtual paradise of pleasure purely for the sake of his own enjoyment, which is what our technological economy — and in extremis virtual reality — aspires to provide us with. In this way, the road that our present economic development is taking us down — toward a world of unfettered and instant access to every conceivable desire — is, in a very technical and specific sense, anti-Christ.
Nor would a turn toward statism help the situation. The state merely seeks the same replacement of nature with technology through different and more-violent means. As Kingsnorth writes,
Out in the world, the rebellion against God has become a rebellion against everything: roots, culture, community, families, biology itself. Machine progress — the triumph of the Nietzschean will — ­dissolves the glue that once held us. Fires are set around the supporting pillars of the culture by those charged with guarding it, urged on by an ascendant faction determined to erase the past, abuse their ancestors, and dynamite their cultural ­inheritance, the better to build their earthly paradise on terra ­nullius. Massing against them are the new ­Defenders of the West, some calling for a return to the atomized liberalism that got us here in the first place, others defending a remnant Christendom that seems to have precious little to do with Christ and forgets Christopher Lasch’s warning that “God, not culture, is the only appropriate object of unconditional reverence and wonder.” Two profane visions going head-to-head, when what we are surely crying out for is the only thing that can heal us: a return to the sacred center around which any real culture is built.
The upshot of Kingsnorth’s conversion story is simply this: that in the end, our civilization’s religious destiny, its economic destiny, and the fate of the planet might all hang together in ways we haven’t even begun to come to terms with. It’s a possibility worth pondering.Twitter informs me that the recording artist David Byrne turns 69 today. Most people discover Byrne as the front man for the new-wave band Talking Heads. I knew those tunes in my childhood from the ambient sonic environment. But, I got into his solo work when he released the album Feelings. I went backwards and forwards from there. I’ve practically worn out my DVDs of Jonathan Demme’s concert film Stop Making Sense, which found Talking Heads at a time when they had radically expanded their live-performance band. Similarly, another concert 2004 DVD featuring David Byrne at the Union Chapel.
Advertisement
I have sometimes worried that Byrne’s experiments with what was then called “world music” are going to come under criticism for cultural appropriation — when in fact they were joyful attempts in personally exploring championing the music of other cultures and nations in front of a huge American audience. I used to inflict his music on my friends. And I do remember a delightful CNBC segment where he appeared to talk about his somewhat parodic Powerpoint Art project right after Richard Perle talked about invading several Middle Eastern nations.
Anyway, here are two utterly delightful videos from different parts of his career.
Advertisement
“Slippery People” from Stop Making Sense:
And “Nothing But Flowers” from his 2004 released concert in Union Chapel:Performers in Pikachu costumes dance at a Splash show and Pokemon Go Park event in Yokohama, Japan August 9, 2017. (Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters)
It has been a while since Pokémon, almost a drug-like vice of my youth, has really been in the news. Probably not since the release of Pokémon Go, the game app that made use of an interface with the real world to collect the strange creatures at the game’s center. (And let us not forget Hillary Clinton’s infamous election exhortation for voters to “Pokémon Go to the polls.”) But apparently, it is back.
So what has gotten the Pokémon theme song playing in the Fox News studios for the first time in probably two decades? This time, it’s the trading cards, which came a few years after the original Gameboy games first became popular. The cards are enjoying a somewhat random upsurge in popularity that has led to confrontations in some stores, including a brawl in the parking lot of a Target store, leading Target to temporarily halt their sale (along with that of various sports trading cards):
Target has decided that it’s had enough: the company has officially confirmed to Bleeding Cool that it will halt the sales of Pokémon cards throughout the US, starting Friday, May 14th. The retailer cities [sic] “an abundance of caution” for the safety of both guests and store employees and notes that it will still be selling the cards on its site. Currently, Pokémon cards (and other trading cards) are having a moment: people have swamped card grading companies, hoping to get a rating that makes their cards more valuable, and The Pokémon Company has been rushing to print enough cards to meet the demand. It seems that all the big numbers around the truly rare original cards have caused a lot of excitement around new cards as well. But Target isn’t feeling the hype. It’s hard to blame the retailer, as the situation around the trading cards seems wildly out of control. People have reportedly been opening cereal boxes in stores to steal the included Pokémon cards out of them. And someone in Japan even climbed down a rope to steal almost $9,000 worth of the cardboard cards designed for kids.
I don’t think this necessarily means that the Pokémon cards I have long hoarded are now suddenly more valuable . . . but maybe it does. If only I had more. Where’s Missingno when you need him?Performers in Pikachu costumes dance at a Splash show and Pokemon Go Park event in Yokohama, Japan August 9, 2017. (Kim Kyung-Hoon/Reuters)
It has been a while since Pokémon, almost a drug-like vice of my youth, has really been in the news. Probably not since the release of Pokémon Go, the game app that made use of an interface with the real world to collect the strange creatures at the game’s center. (And let us not forget Hillary Clinton’s infamous election exhortation for voters to “Pokémon Go to the polls.”) But apparently, it is back.
So what has gotten the Pokémon theme song playing in the Fox News studios for the first time in probably two decades? This time, it’s the trading cards, which came a few years after the original Gameboy games first became popular. The cards are enjoying a somewhat random upsurge in popularity that has led to confrontations in some stores, including a brawl in the parking lot of a Target store, leading Target to temporarily halt their sale (along with that of various sports trading cards):
Target has decided that it’s had enough: the company has officially confirmed to Bleeding Cool that it will halt the sales of Pokémon cards throughout the US, starting Friday, May 14th. The retailer cities [sic] “an abundance of caution” for the safety of both guests and store employees and notes that it will still be selling the cards on its site. Currently, Pokémon cards (and other trading cards) are having a moment: people have swamped card grading companies, hoping to get a rating that makes their cards more valuable, and The Pokémon Company has been rushing to print enough cards to meet the demand. It seems that all the big numbers around the truly rare original cards have caused a lot of excitement around new cards as well. But Target isn’t feeling the hype. It’s hard to blame the retailer, as the situation around the trading cards seems wildly out of control. People have reportedly been opening cereal boxes in stores to steal the included Pokémon cards out of them. And someone in Japan even climbed down a rope to steal almost $9,000 worth of the cardboard cards designed for kids.
I don’t think this necessarily means that the Pokémon cards I have long hoarded are now suddenly more valuable . . . but maybe it does. If only I had more. Where’s Missingno when you need him?( Scott O'Neill/Getty Images)
Prominent publishing houses in the U.S. and the U.K. have refused to publish Tuvia Tenenbom’s latest best-selling book exposing the rise of anti-Semitism in Europe.
“I cannot for the life of me get any American publisher for my books. We tried, we got agents, they disappeared. ” Tenenbom said during an interview with National Review. “It makes no sense.”
Advertisement
Tenenbom, a German journalist, prolific author, and Jew himself, said that American publishers are more interested in spotlighting identity politics, American colonialism, and social justice issues rather than unearthing the resurgence of ethnic hate in Europe. As a result, he says they refused to publish his latest work, The Taming of the Jew, despite Tenenbom having secured representation from The London Blair Partnership’s Neil Blair, a prominent agent who also represents J.K. Rowling.
“In their mindset, there is no anti-Semitism. It’s only prevalent among some conservative groups in the West. Not anyone else. This is the picture they want to present,” Tenenbom remarked.
Simon and Schuster and Penguin Books, two publishers that denied the book, did not respond to National Review’s request for comment. The Blair Parnernship had no comment when asked why they were unable to secure a publisher from the book.
In the book, the author highlights episodes of anti-Semitism he experienced and witnessed in ordinary European settings, like at a local pub in Northern Ireland and in a conversation with a British Labor Party politician. These stories have been corroborated by video tapes, which Tenenbom recorded as an undercover journalist traveling throughout the United Kingdom. In the video, an Irishman is heard defending Hitler’s extermination of the Jews and praising the Palestinian movement saying, “The Jews are the scourge of the Earth.”
Tenenbom shared that, in order to reach the American audience, he’s been forced to publish his books via a Jerusalem-based company, which prints it in English and ships it to the United States for purchase on Amazon.
The journalist’s last four books were huge successes, selling thousands of copies, ranking at the top of the charts in Israel, and receiving glowing reviews. “Obviously there is a big market for it, so you can make money on it,” Tenenbom said.
Advertisement
However, despite his record of popularity, he said all the U.S. publishers he pursued have rejected his books outright.
“It isn’t about money, it’s about ideology,” Tenenbom stated. “They don’t want this information out. We live in a world where information is denied for normal people.”
Tenenbom said that most actors in American corporate media have declined the chance to review his book as well. “It was only reviewed once, by The Wall Street Journal,” he commented.
In a similar case, Ayaan Hirsi Ali’s book on the rise of violence against women in European cities, perpetrated mostly by refugees from Islamic countries, was also ignored by U.S. publishers this year. When Prey was released, The New York Times published a denigrating hit-piece to ruin its prospects.
Advertisement
Much like Tenenbom’s, Hirsi Ali’s book was not widely distributed or reviewed. The liberal ex-Muslim reformer claims it was shunned because it clashed with the ideological commitments of U.S. publishers and media outlets.
Advertisement
Tenenbom affirmed that anti-Semitism is alive and well in Europe and expressed his fears that certain chapters of history could soon be repeated. Tenenbom concluded the interview by sharing the testimony of a Jewish member of the British House of Lords.
“He told me he carries a bag with him everywhere he goes, every time he goes to the House of Lords. Inside is a passport and 27 different currencies. He does this in case Great Britain expels him because he is a Jew,” Tenenbom said.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Caitlyn Jenner at Vanity Fair‘s Oscar party in Beverly Hills, Calif., on April 3, 2018 (Danny Moloshok / Reuters)
My Impromptus today is headed “Splitsville, &c.” Why? I lead with Bill and Melinda Gates, who are getting divorced. This is not only a personal matter, I think, it is also a blow to society. You may differ (as always).
What else? I have some Vladimir Putin in my column. He is a very, very good hockey player — though maybe not as good as Kim Jong-il was a golfer, or Elena Ceausescu a chemist.
Advertisement
I also touch on Liz Cheney, George Will — and Jack Fowler, that pillar of National Review.
Language, too. My column includes some notes on language, as it usually does, and I’d like to do some more typing on the subject, here in the Corner.
I often say that I’d last about a week — maybe three days? — on a typical college campus. I’d use the wrong pronoun or something, there’d be a blow-up, and I’d be gone.
Language is a minefield. You never know what you’re going to step on. In my column today, I use the word “accompanist,” to describe a pianist who plays in a voice recital. A lot of people don’t want you to use this word. They want you to say “collaborative pianist.” I have not quite gotten with the program. (When do I?)
I smile at the memory of one musician, who when called a “collaborative pianist” said, “No, I’m an accompanist. ‘Collaborator’ makes me sound like a Frenchman on the wrong side in World War II or something.”
My Impromptus on Monday led with Caitlyn Jenner, who is a minefield unto herself — himself? A lot of people feel very, very strongly about this. Some readers thought I had used the wrong pronouns, and they let me know, in no uncertain terms. I say: I have resisted the language cops all my life. Usually, they come from the left. But I’ll resist them wherever they come from.
One of the reasons I rejected the Left, long ago, was that they were always telling you how to talk. They were always saying what you could say and not say. They were language cops. The American rebel in me says: Get stuffed.
Advertisement
There is policing on the right, too. I’ll give you two examples, beyond the pronouns thing. I have been admonished for saying “gay marriage,” instead of “homosexual marriage.” Also for saying “Fourth of July.” Oh, you don’t like American independence, do you? Don’t you know it’s “Independence Day”? You think it’s just another date on the calendar? Do you refer to Christmas as “the Twenty-fifth of December”? Why are you trying to erase Independence Day?
To which I can only say, as our forefathers did, Ay, caramba.
There are a million more things to say about language, and I have said many of them — half a million? — over many years of writing. There is this essay, for example: “Adventures in Lexical Fashion: Today’s progressive term may become tomorrow’s slur.” Bottom line, if I have one: Good will means a lot. Good will über Alles.
Advertisement
Which brings up another language issue (in English, not German): Do you like good will or goodwill? There was a debate at The Weekly Standard, way back. I think that good will and goodwill are pronounced differently. I think the stress in goodwill has to go on the first syllable, which I dislike.
Advertisement
But we can debate this little question another time. Again, for today’s Impromptus, go here.President-elect Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, attend a service at St. Matthew the Apostle Catholic Church in Washington, D.C., before his presidential inauguration on January 20, 2021. (Tom Brenner/Reuters)
Salvatore Cordileone, the Catholic archbishop of San Francisco, has explained why politicians who support exposing unborn children to lethal violence are ineligible for Communion. Responding to him without naming him, Robert McElroy, the Catholic bishop of San Diego, writes in America that “the Eucharist must never be instrumentalized for a political end, no matter how important.” He goes on to argue that millions of laypeople would run afoul of a more stringent standard; that it would be wrong to withhold Communion for officials who are in error on abortion but not those who have made grave moral errors on other issues; that the unity of the Church would suffer as many Catholics failed to see any good reason for this selectivity; and that we must keep in mind that we are “a church of sinners and questioners, who must face intense pressures and complexities in their daily lives.”
Advertisement
One can disagree with each and every argument Bishop McElroy makes. What can’t be denied is that they add up to a case that the Church owes some segregationists an apology.Rep. Dan Bishop, (R., N.C.) speaks before a House committee meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C.,, July 22, 2020. (Andrew Harnik/Reuters)
A coalition of House Republicans will introduce two pieces of legislation Wednesday that are designed to push back the rising tide of critical race theory (CRT) in public education and the military.
Republican Representative Dan Bishop initiated the legislation, copies of which were obtained by The Daily Caller, and plans to share the proposals with former Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Russ Vought and other GOP members late Wednesday.
Advertisement
The first bill, called the “The Stop CRT Act,” would cut off all federal funding to schools that incorporate CRT into their curricula. The legislation will also codify former former President Donald Trump’s executive order that prohibited CRT from being promoted at the federal level. It stipulates that federal funds can’t be directed to any entity that teaches or advances the ideas that “any race is inherently superior or inferior to any other race”, that the United States is a “fundamentally racist country”, and that an “individual bears responsibility for the actions committed by members of his/her race.”
The second bill, called “Combatting Racist Training in the Military Act,” accompanies Republican Senator Tom Cotton’s Senate bill, which bans the teaching of CRT in the armed forces.
Cotton’s legislation, the “Combatting Racist Training in the Military Act of 2021,” would forbid the military from promoting the ideology of CRT, segregating on the basis of race, and compelling members to profess the tenets of CRT. It also would ban trainings that indoctrinate military members that “any race is inherently superior or inferior to any other race” and that the U.S. “is a fundamentally racist country.”
Advertisement
CRT teaches that racism is intrinsic to America’s national character and encourages people to reevaluate the country’s history through the lens of oppression.
The House Republicans’ proposal comes after numerous Republican-dominated state legislatures have advanced or passed their own versions of anti-CRT policy into law.
Included in the group of Republicans backing the bill are Texas Representative Chip Roy, Georgia Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, North Carolina Representative Ted Budd, Colorado Representative Lauren Boebert, Arizona Representative Andy Biggs and South Carolina Representative Ralph Norman.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.( LemonTreeImages/Getty Images)
A British couple recently went on national television to explain that their very young daughter is really a boy because the small child said, at two years old, “I’m not a girl, I think I’m a boy.” And that, these days, is enough to make it so!
In his deposition to the James Younger trial, Dr. C. Alan Hopewell, the senior clinical neuropsychologist in the state of Texas, testified that a seven-year-old child “can’t make rational decisions” and is “very easily influenced.” This fact is “settled science,” he said — “at the level of Galileo’s statement of how the Earth revolves around the sun.”
Advertisement
Whatever confusion or bad advice they may be suffering from, these parents are peddling madness. This is dangerous for their toddler and for our culture.
'We love him so much. We're so proud of him and the choice that he's made.' At the age of two, Stormy told his family, 'I'm not a girl, I think I'm a boy'. We speak to his parents, Matthew and Klara, who hope that their story helps raise awareness for other families. pic.twitter.com/AiVR2HhNlX — This Morning (@thismorning) May 10, 2021. . . is fought not by the poor but by the superrich-adjacent.
Why not headline this New York Times story — Stephen Colbert makes fun of Jeff Bezos’s new boat — something like: “Guy Who Is Paid $1.25 Million a Month Thinks Other Guy Has Too Much Money”?Lapid's coalition is made up of parties from the left and right wings of the political spectrum, as well as an Arab political party.Thuso Mbedu in The Underground Railroad. (Amazon)
Barry Jenkins’s warped slave history is worse than dumbed-down.
While politicians battle critical race theory, the progressive dogma and its offshoot, the New York Times’ 1619 Project, have already taken hold in Hollywood. This week’s example is the Barry Jenkins series The Underground Railroad, now streaming on Amazon and warping America’s racial history for anyone who watches it.
This ten-episode program is a big-ticket item meant to confirm Jenkins’s seriousness in which he dramatizes the efforts by two slaves, Cora (Thuso Mbedu) and Caesar (Aaron Pierre), to escape Southern tyranny and go north, where their struggle continues. Jenkins’s convoluted opus is bankrolled by an industry that already hailed his film Moonlight (2016), an intersectional race-gender conceit of nearly laughable preciousness. The Underground Railroad continues that conceit from its opening: Slo-mo images of a black couple falling down a pit (a sunken place) alongside an infinite ladder. More slo-mo shots of the woman and a gay male running in reverse through a field. Next, a subterranean locomotive on railroad tracks. Then huddling slave women surround a bloody afterbirth plopped onto a cabin floor. And finally, the beleaguered young black woman lamenting: “The first and last thing my mama gave me was apology.”
Advertisement
Jenkins, in his first five minutes, can’t wait to turn the black slave experience into poetry. But the problem is that it’s a third-rate version of cinematic “poetry,” so decorative and refined that the history of black suffering and perseverance becomes a fantasy of racial oppression, yet ignores facts of social advancement. It seems conjured out of the indulgence of a privileged generation that has to imagine suffering — a flippant take on Nina Simone’s “I Wish I Knew How It Would Feel to Be Free” (similar to Jenkins’s plodding, obtuse film adaptation of James Baldwin’s If Beale Street Could Talk).
In The Underground Railroad, Jenkins’s shamelessness meets that of novelist Colson Whitehead, who published his complementary literary conceit and bowdlerization of black history the same year as Moonlight. Jenkins and Whitehead use identity politics — identity poetics — for race-baiting. Their streaming-series collaboration appeals to the lip-smacking delectation of liberals who have bought into the race-gender historical conceit of the 1619 Project and critical race theory.
Advertisement
Both Jenkins and Whitehead epitomize the new media trade. They deliver the immiseration expected of black media workers, which is eventually lauded with Oscars and literary prizes, like the work of their British counterpart, Steve McQueen. This obvious sense of patronage defines The Underground Railroad as another in the proliferating series of programs that trivialize the history of U.S. slavery and oppression.
Jenkins’s artsy effects include glamorized portraits (representations) of blacks; not the period-realism that accounted for the depiction of slavery in Roots (1977). This recalls Julie Dash’s Daughters of the Dust rather than Haile Gerima’s Sankofa, because Jenkins’s race fantasy substitutes style for experience, and 1619 Project mythology for history. His pretense is a form of sophistry. The Underground Railroad speaks to an audience educated in critical race theory that makes them subject to specious manipulation.
Note an early exchange between white slave master and black overseer: “I knew you let your slaves have revels, but I didn’t know they were so extravagant.” One extravagance includes a slave child’s reciting the Declaration of Independence just to incite a slaver’s anger. In another showpiece, a runaway slave is whipped and immolated, the savagery followed by fiddle music and whites dancing. This is witnessed by a gathering of the plantation slaves — no doubt Jenkins’s metaphor for the critical-race-theory audience forced to observe brutal dramatizations of racism, intended to incite them politically.
But it’s an unhelpful metaphor, just like Whitehead’s perverse symbolism, which misinterprets the “underground railroad” idea. The actual, secretly organized complex of safe houses and roads that escaped slaves took to the North and Canada was named metaphorically, coded to evade the scrutiny of white slave owners. But Whitehead literalized the metaphor, and Jenkins corroborates that pomposity, neglecting black spirituality, blunting any poetic, salvific beauty of liberation.
Advertisement
Everything here looks just like Us, Lovecraft Country, Watchmen, and Them — sci-fi fodder. Jenkins’s overrefined sense of black history — a pageant of fabulous nightmares — is the real extravagance in The Underground Railroad. (A sexual subtheme includes slave-master voyeurism including Caesar’s penchant to “sneak and go around the swamp with other men on your back” instead of procreating.)
By appropriating an OutKast hip-hop song for the end credits, this is worse than dumbed-down. It proves how contemporary black pop culture participates in its own corruption, misunderstood as artistic liberation. This confusion has become the language through which black artists such as Jenkins communicate with the industry’s white liberal moguls. The Underground Railroad isn’t really about history. It’s white exploitation that teaches blacks to distrust and hate whites, and whites to distrust and hate themselves.
﻿Dr. Anthony Fauci testifies at the House Select Subcommittee on the coronavirus pandemic on Capitol Hill, April 15, 2021. (Susan Walsh/Pool via Reuters)
Senator Rand Paul asked Dr. Anthony Fauci about the United States’ role — and Fauci’s own as head of NIAID — in funding the Wuhan Virology Institute to study “gain-of-function” in coronaviruses. Basically, lots of outlets have reported that a subgrant to the EcoAlliance diverted U.S. tax dollars to study how to make bat coronaviruses more infective in humans.
.@RandPaul: “Dr. Fauci, do you still support…NIH funding of the lab in Wuhan?” Dr. Anthony Fauci: “Senator Paul, with all due respect, you are entirely and completely incorrect…” Full video: https://t.co/ILTKlTSQdC pic.twitter.com/t0HxwsWXmm — CSPAN (@cspan) May 11, 2021
The exchange got very testy.
Advertisement
And, it’s hard not to see that Fauci is responding in a technically correct but ultimately misleading way. Notice the shift between definitions from one question to the next? We need public officials and the press to push much harder on this line of questioning.Dr. Anthony Fauci attends a Senate committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., March 18, 2021. (Anna Moneymaker/Reuters)
Senator Rand Paul (R., Ky.) excoriated Dr. Anthony Fauci during a Tuesday hearing for continuing to defend gain-of-function research on deadly viruses despite the possibility that the novel coronavirus leaked from a laboratory that was performing such research in Wuhan, China.
Paul asked Dr. Fauci if he still supports National Institutes of Health funding for the Wuhan Institute of Virology, where scientists performed gain-of-function research—i.e. making viruses more infectious and/or deadly—on bat coronaviruses. The EcoHealth Alliance diverted $600,000 in grants from the NIH to the WIV in the form of sub-grants from 2014 through 2019, for the purpose of studying bat coronaviruses.
Advertisement
“For years, Dr. Ralph Baric, a virologist in the U.S., has been collaborating with Dr. Shi Zhengli from the Wuhan Virology Institute, sharing his discoveries about how to create superviruses,” Paul said. “This gain-of-function research has been funded by the NIH. … Dr. Fauci, do you still support funding of the NIH lab in Wuhan?”
“Senator Paul, with all due respect, you are entirely and completely incorrect,” Dr. Fauci said. “[The] NIH has not ever and does not now fund gain-of-function research in the Wuhan Institute of Virology.”
.@RandPaul: "Dr. Fauci, do you still support…NIH funding of the lab in Wuhan?" Dr. Anthony Fauci: "Senator Paul, with all due respect, you are entirely and completely incorrect…" Full video: https://t.co/ILTKlTSQdC pic.twitter.com/t0HxwsWXmm — CSPAN (@cspan) May 11, 2021
The U.S. government has assessed that the WIV was conducting gain-of-function research in some form, reporter Josh Rogin noted in Politico in March. Jamie Metzl, an expert on gene editing for the World Health Organization, has also noted that the WIV performed gain-of-function research.
Advertisement
When Paul asked if Dr. Fauci still backed funding from NIH going to the WIV in previous years, Dr. Fauci responded that it would have been “irresponsible” not to investigate bat viruses in China after the advent of SARS in 2002.
“Will you categorically say that COVID-19 could not have occurred through serial passage [a method of creating a virus] in a laboratory?” Paul asked.
“I do not have any accounting of what the Chinese may have done and I am fully in favor of any further investigation of what went on in China,” Dr. Fauci said. “However, I will repeat, the NIH…categorically has not funded gain of function research to be conducted in the Wuhan Institute of Virology.”
At least one study conducted at the WIV involving “recombination” of SARS-related coronavirus from bats cites the NIH as a source of funding, Richard Ebright, Board of Governors Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Rutgers University, noted on Twitter.
The construction of novel chimeric SARS-related coronaviruses able to infect human cells and lab animals at WIV (1) was published with an acknowledgment to NIH grant AI110964 (https://t.co/WflZCji8Ku), and (2) was reported to NIH under NIH grant AI110964 (https://t.co/lRV7MjMhQz) — Richard H. Ebright (@R_H_Ebright) May 11, 2021
The National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the institution headed by Dr. Fauci, said it was impossible to know if the WIV was performing gain-of-function research in comments to the Wall Street Journal on Monday.
Advertisement
“WIV is a Chinese institution which we assume has multiple sources of funding. It is impossible for us to be aware of nor can we account for all of their activities,” the NIAID said. “We can only speak to our relationship with them. As stated, at no time did NIAID fund gain-of-function research to be conducted at WIV.”
Fauci is a leading advocate for gain-of-function research and was instrumental in reauthorizing it domestically during the Trump administration, after it was suspended by the Obama administration in 2014 due to safety concerns. This year, amid the pandemic, the NIH proposed significantly increasing the budget for gain-of-function research despite the possibility that COVID was the product of such research.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.We do live in a time in which many of our most important and prestigious institutions cannot seem to do anything right — but we also live in a time in which scientists are using the AIDS virus to cure the “bubble boy” disease. From the AP:
Patients now are treated with twice-weekly doses of antibiotics and germ-fighting antibodies, but it’s not a permanent solution. Doctors think gene therapy might be. They remove some of a patient’s blood cells, use a disabled AIDS virus to insert a healthy version of the gene that the kids need, and return the cells through an IV.
Seems to be working. Well done.People walk past the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) headquarters in West Hollywood, Calif., May 10, 2021. (Mario Anzuoni/Reuters)
NBC announced it would not host the 2022 Golden Globes following a series of Los Angeles Times reports about an alleged lack of diversity within the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which manages the awards.
The HFPA was described as an opaque organization which, while it included people of different ethnicities, had no black members as of this year, according to the Times. The investigation also uncovered allegations that members try to keep some talented journalists out of the organization because they are seen as a threat to current members.
Advertisement
Additionally, the nonprofit HFPA pays its members in ways that may violate IRS guidelines, the Times found.
“None of these allegations has ever been proven in court or in any investigation, [and they] simply repeat old tropes about the HFPA and reflect unconscious bias against the HFPA’s diverse membership,” an HFPA spokesman told the Times in response to the allegations.
However, following backlash among Hollywood stars and certain studios, NBC announced on Monday that it would not air the Golden Globes next year after hosting them since 1996.
“We continue to believe that the HFPA is committed to meaningful reform,” NBC said in a statement. “However, change of this magnitude takes time and work, and we feel strongly that the HFPA needs time to do it right. As such, NBC will not air the 2022 Golden Globes. Assuming the organization executes on its plan, we are hopeful we will be in a position to air the show in January 2023.”
Actress Scarlett Johansson slammed the HFPA in a statement on Saturday, saying the Golden Globes were “legitimized by the likes of Harvey Weinstein” as a way to gain wider recognition.
Appearing at HFPA events “has often meant facing sexist questions and remarks by certain HFPA members that bordered on sexual harassment,” Johansson said. “Unless there is necessary fundamental reform within the organization, I believe it is time that we take a step back from the HFPA.”
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Relatives attend a mass funeral ceremony for victims of an explosion in Kabul, Afghanistan, May 9, 2021. (Stringer/Reuters)
1. Reuters: At least 68 killed in Afghan school blast; families bury victims
An eyewitness told Reuters all but seven or eight of the victims were schoolgirls going home after finishing their studies. On Sunday, civilians and policemen collected books and school bags strewn across a blood-stained road now busy with shoppers ahead of celebrations for Eid al-Fitr next week.
2. Associated Press: More than 300 Palestinians hurt in Jerusalem holy site clash
More than a dozen tear gas canisters and stun grenades landed in the Al-Aqsa mosque, located in a compound sacred to both Jews and Muslims, said an Associated Press photographer at the scene. Smoke rose in front of the mosque and the iconic golden-domed shrine on the site, and rocks littered the surrounding plaza. Inside one area of the compound, shoes and debris lay scattered over ornate carpets. More than 305 Palestinians were hurt, including 228 who went to hospitals and clinics for treatment, according to the Palestinian Red Crescent. Seven of the injured were in serious condition. Police said 21 officers were hurt, including three who were hospitalized. Monday’s confrontation was the latest after weeks of mounting tensions between Palestinians and Israeli troops in the Old City of Jerusalem, the emotional center of their conflict. The clashes have come during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, already a time of heightened religious sensitivities.
3.
The crimes of #China’s regime are so horrific that leaders of other countries can’t talk about them. If they did, they would be forced to take action, and they don’t want to do that. So you and I must speak—and on occasion shout—until our leaders have no choice but to defend us. — Gordon G. Chang (@GordonGChang) May 10, 2021
4. Iraqi journalist in critical condition after assassination attempt in Diwaniyah
An Iraqi journalist is in hospital fighting for his life after he was shot in the head in Diwaniyah, southern Iraq, early Monday morning, just 24 hours after a prominent activist was assassinated. Ahmed Hassan, a reporter for al-Forat TV channel, was shot in front of his home in Diwaniyah. … There have been 81 attempted assassinations of activists since the anti-government protest movement began in October 2019, according to Ali al-Bayati, a member of the Iraqi High Commission of Human Rights. Thirty-four activists have been killed.
5. John Stonestreet, Roberto Rivera: Organ shopping is big business
The number of people worldwide seeking organs for transplant significantly outpaces the amount of organs available. This has created, in a morbid lesson about “supply and demand,” the reality of “organ tourism,” where affluent Westerners travel overseas to obtain what they can’t get at home. As a result, there’s now a thriving black market for transplantable organs, in which poverty-stricken people sell kidneys or parts of their liver. This practice, which Wesley J. Smith has called “biological colonialism,” needs to be banned. Some poorer nations have banned this exploitative commerce, but China is increasing supply, forcibly harvesting organs from prisoners alive and dead, especially from the Muslim Uyghur population.
6. Helen Alvare and Brad Wilcox: Biden’s elitist work-family policy won’t work for most families
Vance’s point is that the Biden administration’s plan to spend an extra $225 billion to expand child care, after already boosting child care spending by $40 billion in the American Rescue Plan, ends up supporting just one model of family life. That model is one in which both parents of young children work full-time and delegate the care of those children to institutional daycare. This is the most popular model for the American upper-class, according to a recent YouGov survey by American Compass. This is also the model the White House is clearly the most enamored with. “We want parents to be in the work force, especially mothers,” Susan Rice, head of the White House Domestic Policy Council, told The New York Times. The only problem with the White House’s view is that it is not shared by a majority of the middle class, working class or the poor. Their favorite model when it comes to caring for young children? Having one parent work and one parent at home.
7. Ross Douthat: Is Capitalism Killing Conservatism?
…social conservatism can be undermined by economic dynamism, but also respond dynamically in its turn — through a constant “reinvention of tradition,” you might say, manifested in religious revival, new forms of association, new models of courtship, even as older forms pass away. It’s only after the 1960s that this conservative reinvention seems to fail, with churches dividing, families failing, associational life dissolving. And capitalist values, the economic and sexual individualism of the neoliberal age, clearly play some role in this change. But strikingly, after the 1960s economic dynamism also diminishes, as productivity growth drops and economic growth decelerates. So it can’t just be capitalist churn undoing conservatism, exactly, if economic stagnation and social decay go hand in hand.
8. Josh Kraushaar: School daze: Why Democrats are vulnerable on education
One of the few polls to examine the level of support for these hot-button educational issues, provided exclusively to National Journal, suggests the backlash to this type of educational activism is bipartisan. Commissioned by a newly launched group called Parents Defending Education, formed to “fight indoctrination in the classroom,” the survey found there is deep and widespread opposition to equity programs that call on students to check their “white privilege,” teach them that America is a systemically racist country, and promote social-justice causes. The survey, conducted last month by the Republican polling firm Competitive Edge Research, found broad support for generic calls for diversity and inclusion. Nearly two-thirds of respondents said it was at least somewhat important to “promote social equity” in school. But when drilling in on details, the political tide turned. A sizable 55 percent of respondents said placing a “greater emphasis on race and gender” was not important to them, including about one-third of Democrats. A whopping 70 percent majority rejected the notion that schools should “teach their students that their race was the most important thing about them.”
9. David G. Bonagura Jr.: Catholic Schools and the Woke Revolution
Now the 2020 cultural upheavals threaten to make Catholic education indistinguishable from public education. The changes that the Woke Revolution seeks would not upset the structure of Catholic schools as happened fifty years ago. Rather, the Woke Revolution demands changes within existing curricula that would replace whatever is left of Catholic identity and of Catholic social thought with noxious secular ideologies that seek not the Kingdom of God, but the Kingdom of Men and Women at War with their Creator.
10.
“….The only thing we offer is a abortions or pregnancy testing or ultrasounds..” https://t.co/h5J4f0ydrm — MarjorieDannenfelser (@marjoriesba) May 10, 2021
11.
Senior Hamas Official Fathi Hammad to Palestinians in Jerusalem: Buy 5-Shekel Knives and Cut Off the Heads of the Jews #Hamas @StateDept #terrorism #Jerusalem pic.twitter.com/dTTOaOqa5H — MEMRI (@MEMRIReports) May 10, 2021
12.
10 May 1888 | Blessed Symforian Feliks Ducki #OFMCap was born. Germans arrested him in Warsaw on 27 June 1941. He was transferred to #Auschwitz on 3 September 1941 .
No. 20364.
He was murdered on 11 April 1942 & beatified on 13 June 1999. pic.twitter.com/eeruAUb50F — Auschwitz Memorial (@AuschwitzMuseum) May 10, 2021
13. Antisemitic Attacks Spike in NYC as COVID-19 Fades
Advertisement
14.
The historic St. Leo the Great church in the Tacony section of Philadelphia went up in flames today. The parish closed in 2019, but the building was registered for its historical significance. pic.twitter.com/VE2yV3b5xr — Father V (@father_rmv) May 9, 2021
15. Just ‘do the next thing’: How one Colorado couple is raising four children with Down syndrome
In their research, the McGarritys learned about how many children were being aborted with a prenatal diagnosis. “I contacted the National Down Syndrome Adoption Network to ask if it was crazy to be a parent of a child with Down syndrome who also wants to adopt a child with Down syndrome,” McGarrity said. “The woman on the other end of the line said, ‘I have four children with Down syndrome,’ and I was like, ‘Ok, I guess I’m not crazy.’”
16. Mike Kerrigan: My Mom’s Christian Lesson: ‘Offer It Up’
You didn’t make the starting lineup on varsity, despite training hard all summer? Offer it up. SAT scores came back lower than you’d expected? Offer it up. Teenage heartbreak going into senior prom? That’s right, offer it up. It was an expression of love in a catechetical and not saccharine sense. Donna Kerrigan was inviting her eldest son to participate in redemptive suffering, uniting life’s daily setbacks to Christ’s sacrifice on the cross to serve his purposes in the world. Hers was a practical mysticism designed to ensure nary a drop of suffering—never in short supply in our broken world—go to waste.
17. Kim Baile: Motherly Wisdom
I think this is a real power of motherhood: to communicate — first as a feeling, and then as an idea and deep conviction — that we are each irreplaceable and loved in a way that does not count the cost. It is this love of a mother that points us to the gratuitous love of God.
18. Amanda Evinger: It’s Time for a Nobel Prize for Mothers
Ultimately, as with all things, the marvel of motherhood must be seen in light of eternity. To weigh something in finite terms is entirely misleading. Because our culture is one that is particularly talented at viewing things as if earthly life were infinite in itself, the divine vocation of motherhood is often belittled. Because a mother is a person created in the image of her Heavenly Father, her soul thirsts for Him, and this thirst can only be satisfied by fulfilling her vocation to the full. Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty once wrote, “At the very core of woman’s soul is motherhood. All her thoughts center about this. In it she sees her greatest happiness. The more mankind withdraws from God, the more difficult becomes man’s task of comprehending and justly evaluating the proper worth of woman.” … This being said, just how can we go about “re-throning” motherhood and giving it its rightful place in the mentality of Catholic culture. It’s no easy task. I believe it begins with showing our children the beauty of motherhood from the start. To be the house of an immortal soul crafted so intricately by the Master of the Universe – what more could a creature ask for? Are our girls hearing these things, or are they just being asked what “real” jobs they are going to study for to make a name for themselves?
19. John A. Cuddleback: In Defense of Housework
Good work, Berry writes, is “the enactment of connections. It is living, and a way of living; it is not support for a family in the sense of a brace or a prop, but is one of the forms and acts of love.” To rediscover work in the home is to rediscover the flesh and bones of this primordial human community. But how can we rediscover that for which most of us now lack the time, the taste, and the talent? If Berry is right—and I am convinced he is—our being intentional about bringing back housework is central to our bringing back the household itself.
20. Why We Still Need Saint Damien of MolokaiChildren’s reading books on a shelf inside Widnes Library in Widnes, England, September 12, 2018. (Phil Noble/Reuters)
It never ceases to shock me, when I am speaking with parents, how many of them utter some version of the following statement: “Oh no, I could never tell my child what they are or aren’t allowed to read. They know what they like, and I don’t want to fight them on it.” Erika J. Ahern has some strong words for these parents. While her main point in the piece centers on pushing back against Amazon’s recent book-bannings, her claim that she has “exercised with Draconian vigilance” her “right to decide what literature [her] children will and will not encounter,” should catch readers’ attention. No, it is not wise to allow your children to roam freely around the library. It’s also not healthy. We don’t just let children run through the grocery store, filling a cart with candy and ice cream, do we? There is an amazing amount of junk — plenty of it insidious, plenty of it just plain stupid — sitting on those shelves. Yes, certainly, there are many literary gems that deserve our time and attention. Libraries and bookstores can be a wealth of knowledge, a place of excitement and exploration ready for the taking. But how would children know the difference between pyrite and the genuine metal if it isn’t explained to them? And why would they care, unless the beauty of that metal is shown to them?
Advertisement
Words matter.
Advertisement
Ideas matter.
For heaven’s sake, the artwork matters!
Please choose for your children, and please choose wisely.A view inside the Esztergom Cathedral in Esztergom, Hungary, April 14, 2021 (Bernadett Szabo/Reuters)
Official support for the religion tends to speed its decline, while the lack thereof speeds its growth.
A peer-reviewed study published this month in the academic journal Sociology of Religion finds a paradoxical correlation between the growth of Christianity on the one hand and the support given to it by the state on the other. As the study’s authors detail in a piece for Christianity Today, their “statistical analysis of a global sample of 166 countries from 2010 to 2020 [finds] that the most important determinant of Christian vitality is the extent to which governments give official support to Christianity through their laws and policies.” But, they say, the relationship between the two is the opposite of what Christians might expect: “As governmental support for Christianity increases, the number of Christians declines significantly. This relationship holds even when accounting for other factors that might be driving Christian growth rates, such as overall demographic trends.”
It turns out that Christianity spreads most successfully in countries with a legal commitment to religious pluralism and countries that actively discriminate against the Christian faith. In their piece for Christianity Today, the authors, Nilay Saiya and Stuti Manchanda, provide a list of the nations in which Christianity is spreading at the quickest rate:
Top 10 Fastest-Growing Christian Populations (Low/no official support for Christianity in bold) 1) Tanzania 2) Malawi 3) Zambia 4) Uganda 5) Rwanda 6) Madagascar 7) Liberia 8) Kenya 9) DR Congo 10) Angola
Many religious thinkers on the American right have expressed grave concern over the past decade about the decline of Christianity nationwide. Most of them seem to believe that the increasing indifference and/or hostility toward Christians and their values on the part of the federal government has been a cause, and not just a symptom, of Christianity’s decline. The small group of reactionary academics warming their hands around the fires of Catholic integralism, for instance, argue that the failure to marry the power of the church with the power of the state is, in fact, the main cause of the decline. But the list above would appear to suggest otherwise.
Those who favor a closer relationship between Christianity — or at least “Christian values” — and the state might reply to Saiya and Manchanda by pointing out that the countries listed above are in such a fundamentally different situation than Western nations that they don’t have much to tell us about the fate of Christianity in the West: These are pre-Christian countries undergoing mass evangelism, not post-Christian countries that were evangelized centuries ago and are falling away from the faith of their fathers. Perhaps then, the exercise of government power in defense of Christianity is necessary in the West to arrest the decline of an already-established faith?
This appears to be the view of thinkers such as Rod Dreher. Mr. Dreher has made the study of Christianity’s decline in the West his life’s work. He’s also written often of his admiration for the Orbán regime in Hungary, which aligns itself very self-consciously with a muscular, conservative Christianity and often uses state power to defend Hungary’s “Christian values.” He’s not the only prominent Christian thinker in the West to express sympathy for Orban’s Fidesz party, either: The British theologian John Milbank has argued that “we too readily accuse Poland and Hungary of authoritarianism. Liberals underrate the degree to which their leaders have to take a strong approach both to resist the residual power of corrupt ex-communist crony networks and to prevent their cultures being undermined by consumerism.” Given the Christian bona fides that these men and others like them attribute to Orbán and his party, it’s interesting to note just how quickly Christianity is declining in Hungary. Here, per Saiya and Manchanda, are the countries in which Christianity is shrinking at the fastest rate:
Top 10 Fastest-Declining Christian Populations (Moderate/high [official] support for Christianity in bold) 1) Czech Republic 2) Bulgaria 3) Latvia 4) Estonia 5) Albania 6) Moldova 7) Serbia 8) Germany 9) Lithuania 10) Hungary
What are we to make of Hungary’s inclusion on the list?
Advertisement
Even without considering the nature of Christianity in and of itself, there are several possible explanations for the negative correlation between state support of Christianity and the growth of the faith. It’s long been known by economists, for instance, that government subsidies to industries or companies often make their recipients less dynamic and productive by reducing the need to compete for customers. Similarly, state sponsorship of or support for a given religion might tend to make that religion less competitive in the market of creeds than it would otherwise be.
It’s also true that a close alignment between Christianity and a given nation-state can often obscure the difference between the two. To say that Hungary is “officially Christian” is to create a semantic space in which it’s easy to mistakenly see being a Christian and being a Hungarian as the same thing. In this respect, it’s worth noting just how many of the countries on the second list above are officially Eastern Orthodox. In the Orthodox countries of Eastern Europe, the intertwinement between church and state is so deep that it’s common for the religion itself to be referred to as “Russian Orthodoxy,” “Serbian Orthodoxy,” or “Romanian Orthodoxy.” In such an environment, Christianity might come to seem like nothing more than an accessory to one’s national identity, at which point the faith can easily be discarded as a relic of nationalism in an increasingly globalized world.
And, of course, there is the sense in which state support for Christianity binds the religion’s credibility to that of the government that claims to represent it.
Last year, I wrote about the consecration of the Main Cathedral of the Russian Armed Forces in Moscow as the supreme example of this kind of “Christian nationalism.” In that piece, I argued that Christianity and political power are, or should be, as oil and water to one another:
The passion of Jesus Christ as presented in the four gospel accounts is the ultimate overthrow not only of the power of the Roman Empire or of Second-Temple Judaism, but of power itself. It destroys the idea at the heart of all the world’s great empires: that salvation for the human race is found at the tip of the sword, in the coercive exercise of one will over and against another. Christianity makes the willing and submissive execution of a criminal at the hands of the state the center of the universe. And it sees in His resurrection the founding of another country from which all coercion is excluded, of which all people are citizens, and upon whose claims on human conscience, action, and belief no earthly magistrate can infringe.
Christianity claims that the power of God is a power that excludes coercion. State power, by contrast, is nothing other than coercion. This is why the great Russian philosopher Nikolai Berdyaev described the Kingdom of God as being characterized by “anarchy,” meaning the absence of domination. It should not surprise us that whenever Christian churches forsake the way of the cross for the way of the sword, their witness withers on the vine. It was with this kind of political apostasy in mind that Dostoevsky, the greatest of all Christian writers, lamented the kind of Christian who “has fallen for Satan’s third temptation,” embracing the idea “that Christ cannot reign without an earthly Kingdom.” All earthly states are, ultimately, destined to sink beneath the sands of time. Churches that anchor themselves to these states for salvation and survival are sure to sink along with them.Customers walk past the new Apple store at Grand Central Station in New York, August 1, 2018. (Lucas Jackson/Reuters )
Seven suppliers for Apple allegedly use forced labor of minority groups in Xinjiang Province, according to an investigation by The Information and human rights groups.
The investigation used previously unreported video, photos, and comments by Chinese officials, as well as public reports in state-run media, to identify the suppliers that allegedly use forced labor. The suppliers named in the report are Advanced-Connectek, AcBel Polytech, Avary Holding, CN Innovations, Luxshare Precision Industry, Shenzhen Deren Electronic Co., and Suzhou Dongshan Precision Manufacturing Co.
Advertisement
While Apple does not list all of its supply-chain providers, the suppliers were found to be connected with Apple through public and internal documents and employee interviews conducted by The Information.
“Despite the restrictions of Covid-19, we undertook further investigations and found no evidence of forced labor anywhere we operate,” Apple told The Information in response to the allegations. “We will continue doing all we can to protect workers and ensure they are treated with dignity and respect.”
China runs a network of detention camps in Xinjiang to hold members of minority groups, primarily Uyghur Muslims. Many of those detainees are used in forced labor projects, including reportedly as part of the global medical goods and cotton supply chains.
Apple is among several companies that have lobbied the U.S. Senate regarding the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which seeks to ban goods from Xinjiang unless customs inspectors can verify they weren’t made with forced labor. Other companies that have lobbied over the bill include Nike and Coca-Cola.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.Then-Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden speaks during a community meeting at Grace Lutheran Church, Kenosha, Wis., September 3, 2020. (Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)
Missing the most important thing
President Joseph Biden mentions his Catholic faith frequently. We’ve heard him cite both the pope and Saint Francis. At his inauguration, he ran through a litany of promises about love and healing and decency, and other things no one could object to, prefaced by, “Before God and all of you, I give you my word.” But when it came time for his first proclamation for a National Day of Prayer, his administration chose to leave God out of it.
Advertisement
There’s mention of racial justice and climate change, but never the three-letter word that acknowledges that there is something more — that our country is founded on — and that is the reason we even exist. Quoting the late congressman John Lewis, the proclamation says, “Human beings are the most dynamic link to the divine on this planet.” The National Day of Prayer then, is about us, not God. And that is the pandemic that, it appears, will remain with us beyond COVID-19.
Do we trust in something greater than Purell and vaccines? We sure seemed to send a message about what was most important to us when we closed churches last year. At precisely the time when people were longing for a truth greater than what Andrew Cuomo or Anthony Fauci said in media appearances, the doors of houses of worship were locked. The priests and other ministers who kept serving are the uncelebrated heroes — essential workers — of the coronavirus shutdowns. As are the ones who lived in isolation, so they could go into hospitals, the ones who checked in on parishioners, the ones who did everything they were allowed to do to safely keep giving people access to Confession and the Eucharist.
The president’s National Day of Prayer proclamation unfortunately gives credibility to those who deride prayer. “Thoughts and prayers” is the common press-release/social-media response to mass shootings and other evils. God’s not listening, or They’re not working — these have become a response, including on the cover of one of New York’s major newspapers. Those who pray to God with purity of heart know that we’re not going to see a response the way humans might like to order things. But we trust that in God’s plan, prayers are critical.
When Pope Benedict XVI, now emeritus, was head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith at the Vatican, the Vatican issued a letter on what prayer is:
Christian prayer . . . is defined, properly speaking, as a personal, intimate, and profound dialogue between man and God. It expresses therefore the communion of redeemed creatures with the intimate life of the Persons of the Trinity. This communion, based on Baptism and the Eucharist, source and summit of the life of the Church, implies an attitude of conversion, a flight from “self” to the “You” of God.
That’s powerful stuff — though obviously Christian prayer, and in a Catholic context. But doesn’t all prayer need to include that kind of humility? And an acknowledgement that our lives are not our own? Isn’t that one of the lessons of the past year? We are mutually vulnerable. Turn to God for meaning and direction.
But there was something of the Biden proclamation that was all about us, and our comfort, and our agendas. This is not a Republican-versus-Democrat kind of thing; practical atheism is a plague. President George W. Bush had the right idea in his 2016 proclamation, citing George Washington: “It is the duty of all nations to acknowledge the Providence of Almighty God, to obey His will, to be grateful for His benefits, and to humbly implore His protection and favor.” That’s a posture that will get us outside our heads and false comforts.
Here is what Mother Teresa said about prayer:
Prayer, to be fruitful, must come from the heart and must be able to touch the heart of God. See how Jesus taught His disciples to pray. Call God your Father; praise and glorify his name. Do His will as the saints do it in heaven; ask for daily bread, spiritual and temporal; ask for forgiveness of your own sins and that you may forgive others, and also for the grace not to give in to temptations and for the final grace to be delivered from the evil that is in us and around us.
She added: “Pray lovingly like children, with an earnest desire to love much and to make loved the one that is not loved.”
Humility is key to prayer. How else can it be prayer? He must increase, and I must decrease and all. A White House proclamation isn’t a theological treatise, but I do wonder whether this year’s betrays our warped view of religion. Prayer isn’t about us so much as it is about God. It’s not about our agendas. It’s an acknowledgement that there is so much more to our day and our lives than what is on our calendars.
Humility was the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.’s posture. Take a look at some of his prayers and you will see the likes of this:
As we look within ourselves we are confronted with the appalling fact that the history of our lives is the history of an eternal revolt against thee. But thou, O God, have mercy upon us. Forgive us for what we could have been but failed to be.
If we got the National Day of Prayer wrong, today is another day. And always remember the Sabbath. It could change our lives and the world. It’s not all about us. God reorients things when we give Him time.
This column is based on one available through Andrews McMeel Universal’s Newspaper Enterprise Association.Oliver Masucci as Rainer Werber Fassbinder in Enfant Terrible. (Dark Star Pictures)
Oskar Roehler’s Enfant Terrible makes hay of the late German auteur’s insane, cruel antics.
It’s been a while since we’ve had a new Coen Brothers film, but there’s some of the Coens’ sizzling comic energy in Enfant Terrible, a German film about a terrible guy.
Meet Rainer Werner Fassbinder, who makes his fellow crazy German auteur Werner Herzog seem like Mitt Romney.
In addition to being terrible, Fassbinder, who died of advanced debauchery at a predictably early age, was a bit of an enfant cruel and an enfant ridicule. Played to the hilt by Oliver Masucci in director Oskar Roehler’s film, he is a snarling gay demon in a black motorcycle jacket, with a bare belly hanging over his waistband and a bushy handlebar mustache framing the cigarette in his mouth. Swilling Cuba Libres, shooting scenes with a hand down the front of his pants, barking madness at his cast and crew, Fassbinder comes across as a sort of arthouse Ed Wood, forever demanding that his cinema be pure and real, which in practice meant punishingly dull and just plain punishing for the actors. If the master thought it would give some edge to his pretentious left-wing films to have an actor get repeatedly belted in the face, then that’s what happened. Naturally, Fassbinder was hailed as a towering genius of the German New Wave, but I’m not sure his reputation can withstand the frequently hilarious barrage of cinematic mockery that Roehler unleashes.
Advertisement
From his beginnings in avant-garde theater — one of his big ideas is to spray the audience with water, another is to stage a play “very slowly, almost statically” — Masucci’s Fassbinder acquires a company of terrified sycophants (one of them is basically Renfield) who move with him into filmmaking at the end of the Sixties. A scene in which actors portraying torch-bearing Ku Klux Klan members wait patiently while another actor fusses with a door that won’t open because it is merely painted on the scenery typifies the Fassbinder approach: high-pitched, low-budget drama fraught with absurdity. After his first film, Love Is Colder Than Death, gets booed at a Berlin film festival, he declares, undaunted, “Next year we will make seven films!”
Advertisement
Fassbinder’s life was his art and his art was his life and they were both campy and swinish, from the Munich commune where he lived with a toilet in the middle of the living room to perhaps the purest distillation of his gonzo style, 1976’s Satan’s Brew, which is one of five films of his available to stream on HBO Max. Hacking his way through one rotten movie after another with cries of, “You’re banned from entering the set, unless we need you as an actor, loser!” or the more plaintive, “I HATE CHICKENS, YOU UNDERSTAND,” Fassbinder is adorably perverse. After he bullies a married (and perhaps not even gay) black man into sex, then casts him in his movie Blacky, he orders the poor schlump to do a scene while being dragged 50 yards behind a motorcycle driven by “Barbel, our bull dyke.” Encountering resistance, he bellows, “All right Henry, get me another negro!” Then he insists that every man in the show should have a woman’s name: “He calls himself Mary now,” someone remarks. “You’re Emma Potato.” He picks up a muscular Moroccan laborer named Salem in a bar in Paris, casts this non-actor in a movie about prejudice, 1974’s Ali: Fear Eats the Soul, and then dumps him. (The real-life Salem later stabbed three people and hanged himself in prison, acts which Enfant Terrible hints were downstream of his mistreatment by Fassbinder.)
The second half of the film could have been trimmed a bit, particularly in the scenes where it wanders away from its Boogie Nights excesses toward serious political issues such as terrorism, which preoccupied 1970s Germany as it did 2000s America. Roehler seems not to know what to do with Fassbinder’s non-terrible films (e.g., Ali), the warm reception of which shocked even their maker. Going from outlaw to celebrity puts the filmmaker in some hilarious situations: In New York, Andy Warhol invites him to a photo op, then innocently asks the corpulent chain-smoker, “Do you do any gymnastics, or?”
Advertisement
Fortunately for the film, Fassbinder is such a beast that success doesn’t get in the way of his self-destruction, the comic aspects of which do not escape Roehler. “I like when I hit rock bottom,” Fassbinder says with a snarl. Drunk and coked to the earlobes, his beer gut hanging out of his bathrobe, he screams at an underling, “You disgust me with your booze and cocaine!” Most of Fassbinder’s films were not very good, but he did leave us with this unforgettable motto, which he delivers after being beaten by a bodyguard for suggesting a Mafia guy’s girlfriend is a hooker: “Someone has to be the a**hole.”A man in eastern China has reportedly contracted what is believed to be the first human case of H10N3 bird flu, though the Chinese government claimed that the “risk of large-scale spread is low.”
“The 41-year-old man in Jiangsu province, northwest of Shanghai, was hospitalized April 28 and is in stable condition, the National Health Commission said on its website,” according to The Associated Press. “No human case of H10N3 has been reported elsewhere, the commission said.”
“This infection is an accidental cross-species transmission,” the statement from the Chinese Communist Party’s National Health Commission said. “The risk of large-scale transmission is low.” The NHC also added that the virus strain is a less severe strain of the virus in poultry.
“The man was stable and ready to be discharged from hospital,” reported Reuters. “Medical observation of his close contacts had not found any other cases.”
According to Filip Claes, regional laboratory coordinator of the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases at the Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific, H10N3 is “not a very common virus.”
Reuters also added that, “There have been no significant numbers of human infections with bird flu since the H7N9 strain killed around 300 people during 2016-2017.”
One form of bird flu that is particularly impactful is the highly pathogenic influenza A virus subtype H5N1, which has killed millions of poultry throughout Africa, Asia, and Europe. According to some reports, the mortality rate for humans who contract H5N1 is 60%, and the first known transmission of this strain to a human occurred in Hong Kong in 1997. There were 18 human cases, with six confirmed deaths.
News of the first human case of H10N3 in China comes as the communist regime is already under scrutiny for its role in the outbreak and spread of COVID-19.
On Saturday, Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) explained to Fox News’ Jeanine Pirro that he was “very worried” that U.S. government funding was still being used by the Chinese communist regime to research and develop biological weapons.
“I’m very worried that this stuff still goes on and that the U.S. government’s been funding it,” Paul told Pirro.
“We’re creating Frankenstein super-viruses that, if they leak out of the lab, accidentally or on purpose, could devastate the world. The SARS virus is 15 times more deadly. If that one gets out, and we enhance its ability to be transmitted, that could kill 50, 100 million people,” said Paul. “This shouldn’t be a partisan issue. This should be debated.”
As The Daily Wire reported, former CIA director and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo claimed that “the Wuhan Institute of Virology is ‘still up and running’ — the same lab from which the virus that causes COVID-19 may have originated according to the Biden administration, which is now demanding an investigation from lawmakers,”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Speaking with Fox News’ Jeanine Pirro on Saturday, Sen. Rand Paul expressed concern that U.S. funding may still be used by the Chinese communist regime to research and develop biological weapons.
“I’m very worried that this stuff still goes on and that the U.S. government’s been funding it,” Paul told Pirro.
The Senator then proceeded to discuss “gain-of-function” research, which involves studying methods to increase a microorganism’s transmissibility or virulence.
“Gain-of-function is basically when you have an animal virus that normally just infects animals, and you somehow mutate it or force it to evolve so it can affect humans. So it’s making it more transmissible to humans, and oftentimes making it more dangerous or deadly in humans,” Paul said. “I’ll give you an example. In 2004, there was a virus, a coronavirus called SARS. It killed a bunch of people. It had a 15 percent mortality.”
“In the Wuhan lab, they were studying this SARS virus, and they were putting new proteins on it to make it more infectious to humans,” Paul continued. “That’s gain-of-function. That’s dangerous. And that may be how this virus started. And so, I’m very worried that this stuff still goes on, and that the U.S. government is funding it.”
Last week, it was reported that the Biden State Department “ended an inquiry into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic that was investigating whether the virus stemmed from a leak out of the Wuhan Institute of Virology,” according to Fox News.
On this subject, Pirro asked why the Biden administration would decide to “stop the investigation into the origins of the Wuhan virus,” especially given China’s efforts to prevent transparency regarding the initial outbreak and the virus’ origins.
“I think there’s been a sea-change in the last two or three weeks on this. A year ago, anybody who mentioned the possibility that this virus came out of the Wuhan lab were dismissed as crazy right-wing cooks, conspiracy theorists, etc,” Paul said. “But now you have even MSNBC coming around. You have the left starting to wonder about it. When I introduced my amendment to say we should quit funding this research in China, I ended up getting every Democrat on board.”
“So I think they either know information, or they suspect that this information is gonna get stronger and stronger, that this came from the lab,” Paul continued.
“We’ve got a lot of evidence point to this lab now,” Paul added, later.
Pirro then asked the Senator why “gain-of-function” research is even carried out.
“They say they’re doing it so that they can study these viruses that jump from animals to humans. The problem is that they are creating something that’s novel; they are creating something that doesn’t exist in nature,” Paul responded. “We’re creating Frankenstein super-viruses that, if they leak out of the lab, accidentally or on purpose, could devastate the world. The SARS virus is fifteen times more deadly. If that one gets out, and we enhance its ability to be transmitted, that could kill 50, 100 million people.”
“This shouldn’t be a partisan issue,” Paul noted. “This should be debated.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Sunday, a senior writer for The New York Times suggested that the mainstream media dismissed the theory espoused by Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton, later championed by former President Trump, that COVID-19 escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, simply because they refused to consider that Cotton, an avowed conservative, might be correct.
New York Times writer David Leonhardt appeared on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” where host Brian Stelter asked, “This week … you wrote about the lab leak theory, and how the conversation about this possible COVID escaping the Wuhan lab theory has been re-evaluated. It’s been reckoned with all of a sudden. What happened this week? Why is this back in the news?”
“Well, so, it’s pretty clear that we don’t know how COVID started,” Leonhardt answered. “Many people think the most likely explanation is that it jumped from an animal to a human being at a food market in Wuhan, China. That is certainly plausible. But it’s also plausible that, with some research at a top virology lab in Wuhan, China, it somehow escaped from there. We don’t know the answer. And what happened was a bunch of people started arguing that it likely escaped from this lab in Wuhan. And some of them were scientists who you’ve never heard of, necessarily, and who made serious arguments. But some of them were conservative politicians like Senator Tom Cotton. And after Cotton started doing it, Donald Trump, when he was president, started doing it.”
“And I think people made this mistake,” Leonhardt admitted. “I think a lot of people on the political left and a lot of people in the media made this mistake. They said, ‘Well, if Tom Cotton is saying something, it can’t be true,’ they assumed that. And that’s not right.”
As far back as January 30, 2020, Cotton theorized that the virus might have come from Wuhan. Speaking at a Senate Armed Services Hearing, he asserted, “I want to talk about the biggest and most important story in the world. The Wuhan coronavirus. This coronavirus is a catastrophe on the scale of Chernobyl for China. But actually, it’s probably worse than Chernobyl, which was localized in its effect. The coronavirus could result in a global pandemic. While you were all sleeping overnight, the number of diagnosed cases in China increased by 30%. Let me be clear: that’s not new cases; that is just newly-admitted cases. It is probably several orders of magnitude higher than that.”
“We still don’t know where coronavirus originated,” Cotton said. “Could have been a market, a farm, a food processing company. I would note that Wuhan has China’s only biosafety level-four super laboratory that works with the world’s most deadly pathogens to include, yes, coronavirus.”
The Wuhan coronavirus is a catastrophe on the scale of Chernobyl for China, only Chernobyl was localized. The coronavirus is spreading worldwide. Last night, confirmed cases increased in China by 30%. The true numbers are likely much higher. pic.twitter.com/oV6zua7sJj — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) January 30, 2020
We still don’t know where coronavirus originated. Could have been a market, a farm, a food processing company. I would note that Wuhan has China’s only biosafety level-four super laboratory that works with the world’s most deadly pathogens to include, yes, coronavirus. pic.twitter.com/CtuU2czBLp — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) January 30, 2020
On February 9, 2020, after China’s ambassador took umbrage, calling Cotton’s suppositions “absolutely crazy” and claiming that the virus was “probably coming from some animals,” Cotton fired back, “Here’s what’s not a conspiracy, not a theory: Fact: China lied about virus starting in Wuhan food market. Fact: super-lab is just a few miles from that market. Where did it start? We don’t know. But burden of proof is on you & fellow communists. Open up now to competent international scientists.”
.@ambcuitianki, here’s what’s not a conspiracy, not a theory: Fact: China lied about virus starting in Wuhan food market https://t.co/Jgpy1Oh75Y — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 9, 2020
Fact: super-lab is just a few miles from that market Where did it start? We don’t know. But burden of proof is on you & fellow communists. Open up now to competent international scientists. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 9, 2020
Roughly a week later, Cotton stated on Fox News’ “Sunday Morning Futures,” “China was lying from the beginning and they’re still lying today. … Here’s what we do know: this virus did not originate in the Wuhan animal market. Epidemiologists who are widely respected from China who have published a study in the international journal the Lancet have demonstrated that several of the original cases did not have any contact with that food market. The virus went into that food market before it came out of that food market. So we don’t know where it originated. But we do know we have to get to the bottom of that. We also know that just a few miles away from that food market is China’s only biosafety level 4 super laboratory that researches human infectious diseases.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Democratic California Governor Gavin Newsom was ordered by a federal judge to pay a $1.35 million settlement to a Los Angeles-area church in his capacity as governor because of the state’s onerous lockdown rules against houses of worship.
In addition to paying Harvest Rock Church of Pasadena, California, U.S. District Court Judge Jesus G. Bernal also ruled that state restrictions on houses of worship would be permitted only if child infections rose 100%, statewide cases are at least 26 per 100,000 people, or available ICU hospital bed capacity falls below 20%, according to the Washington Examiner.
“Any new public health precautions on religious worship services and gatherings at places of worship not in the guidance [are included],” Bernal ruled.
The ruling marks the first statewide permanent injunction against COVID-19 restrictions on houses of worship in the country.
Mat Staver, who is the founder of the nonprofit law firm Liberty Counsel, which represented Harvest Rock Church, described Newsom as “the worst governor in America” when it comes to religious liberty.
“The church stayed open [during the lockdown], and the pastor and parishioners were threatened with daily criminal charges that were up to a year in prison,” Staver said.
“Gov. Newsom’s COVID restrictions intentionally discriminated against churches while providing preferential treatment to many secular businesses and gatherings,” Staver added. “What’s important is this ruling is permanent. He cannot ever do this again.”
Newsom, who received five rebukes from the Supreme Court, faces a recall election after a petition reached the requisite number of signatures in April to land on the ballot later this year.
California’s lockdown began March 19, 2020, and permitted only essential businesses to remain open, which did not include houses of worship. He later allowed churches to open at 25% capacity if the number of congregants remained fewer than 100 people, but instituted another lockdown last summer that lasted until April for much of the state.
Newsom also drew national attention last year when Pastor John MacArthur and the elders of the prominent Grace Community Church in Los Angeles chose to defy state and local restrictions by resuming worship services. Citing Christ and the Bible as the ultimate authority over his congregation, MacArthur wrote in a lengthy blog post replete with Scripture that “we cannot and will not acquiesce to a government-imposed moratorium on our weekly congregational worship or other regular corporate gatherings. Compliance would be disobedience to our Lord’s clear commands.”
Newsom’s office defended him in a recent statement to Newsweek, which said: “Gov. Newsom has always put the health and well-being of Californians first, resulting in the lowest positivity rates in the country and over 35 million shots in arms — more than any other state. This settlement resolves this case while providing clarity and certainty to the public around the public health standards applicable to places of worship following recent rulings by the US Supreme Court.”
Related: ‘A Huge Win’: California Lifts Capacity Limits On Churches Following 5 Rebukes From SCOTUS
Related: John MacArthur’s L.A. County Church Continues To Fight For Freedom To Hold Indoor Services
Related: ‘Compliance Would Be Disobedience’: Prominent California Church Defies State Lockdown To Resume In-Person Assembly
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Joe Biden has always had a plagiarism problem. Now, he can’t stop stealing the words of one of history’s greatest monsters: Chinese Communist dictator Mao Tse-tung.
Over the last year, Biden has repeatedly quoted the same phrase in numerous contexts without crediting Mao — and the legacy media have had nothing to say about it.
The most recent example of Biden’s Mao reference came at the 140th commencement of the U.S. Coast Guard on May 19, moments after botching a quotation he stole from Ronald Reagan. While alternating between boring and insulting the graduates, Biden told the graduates:
We need to see more women at the highest levels of command. We have to make sure that women have the chance to succeed and th- — thrive throughout their careers. There’s a saying that we use in a different context — a Chinese saying that says, “Women hold up half the world.” It’s an absolutely stupid position not to make sure they represent at least half of what we do.
The “Chinese saying” came from the lips of Mao Tse-tung, whose policies and actions killed at least 45 million people during the “Great Leap Forward” from 1958 to 1962. The remark was reported by Chinese media on March 8, 1973, as:
Times have changed, and men and women are equal, Whatever men comrades can accomplish, women comrades can, too. Women hold up half the sky.
That quotation made an impression on Biden, or his speechwriter, who has included it in the president’s prepared addresses several times.
Biden, whose first presidential campaign 33 years ago derailed over plagiarizing British Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock and exaggerating his academic accomplishments, parroted the Mao quote to deep-pocketed donors at a fundraiser in July 2020, as The Daily Wire reported:
“For the first time, an economic crisis is hitting industries dominated by women,” Biden said, flanked by former senior Obama administration advisor Valerie Jarrett, the former vice president’s special guest at the digital fundraiser. “We’ve got to get real economic relief into women’s hands now.” He then quoted what he called an “old Chinese proverb” about women. “Women hold up half the sky,” Biden said.
A month later, on August 21, he explained why he chose his vice presidential running mate, Kamala Harris, during the ticket’s first joint press conference with Robin Roberts of “Good Morning America”:
The government should look like the people, look like the country. Fifty one percent of the people in this country are women. As that old expression goes, women hold up half the sky, and in order to be able to succeed, you’ve got to be dealt in across the board.
Mao Tse-tung was history’s most prolific murderer, subjecting the world’s largest nation to a life of economic destitution and political slavery. Why would the president quote him? Why would the media say nothing about the quotation’s revolting origins?
Compare that to the media outrage when President Donald Trump quoted someone who piques the media’s ire, like a conservative columnist.
In January 2019, then-President Trump tweeted a few quotations from a column by Pat Buchanan on border security, and the media pounced.
“Trump tweets op-ed by Pat Buchanan, whom he derided as a ‘Hitler lover’ in 1999,” wrote USA Today.
“Trump cites Pat Buchanan, man he once called ‘Hitler lover,’ to support border wall,” said The Hill.
“Trump Quotes ‘Hitler Lover’ In Latest Attempt To Push His Border Wall Plan,” read the cranky headline at HuffPost.
Not content to draw attention to the quotation, The Washington Post’s Philip Bump dedicated an entire column to dissecting “the multilevel irony” of the moment.
The media treated Buchanan, an advisor to three presidents and a three-time presidential candidate who has sometimes said things considered intemperate, as though he were a tyrant on the order of … Mao Tse-tung.
Yet when Biden quotes the bloodiest despot in history, the legacy media either do not know or keep the secret to themselves. There appears to have been no coverage from USA Today, The Hill, and HuffPost — nor ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, The Washington Post, or The New York Times, for that matter.
Nor can they all plead ignorance. The New York Times quoted Biden’s favorite phrase of Mao’s favorably in a September 2017 story called, “For all its flaws, the Communist revolution taught Chinese women to dream big.”
Mao didn’t simply “dream big”; he accomplished “big” things — enormously evil actions on a scale never matched before or since. Perhaps the leader of the free world should be discouraged from looking at his writings as a source of wisdom.
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Monday, President Joe Biden issued a proclamation for the centennial of the 1921 Tulsa race massacre and declared May 31, 2021, a “Day of Remembrance.”
According to history.com, the Tulsa Race Massacre took place over 18 hours from May 31 to June 1, 1921 in the mostly black Greenwood neighborhood in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
“The event remains one of the worst incidents of racial violence in U.S. history, and, for a period, remained one of the least-known: News reports were largely squelched, despite the fact that hundreds of people were killed and thousands left homeless,” the website wrote.
The massacre began after an incident occurred between a black man and a white woman. According to the Tulsa Historical Society and Museum, Tulsa police arrested the young man and started an investigation. A report in the Tulsa Tribune, however, initiated “a confrontation between black and white armed mobs around the courthouse where the sheriff and his men had barricaded the top floor to protect Rowland. Shots were fired and the outnumbered African Americans began retreating to the Greenwood District.”
The historical society continued, “In the early morning hours of June 1, 1921, Greenwood was looted and burned by white rioters. Governor Robertson declared martial law, and National Guard troops arrived in Tulsa. Guardsmen assisted firemen in putting out fires, took African Americans out of the hands of vigilantes and imprisoned all black Tulsans not already interned. Over 6,000 people were held at the Convention Hall and the Fairgrounds, some for as long as eight days.”
After the violence ended, “35 city blocks lay in charred ruins, more than 800 people were treated for injuries and contemporary reports of deaths began at 36. Historians now believe as many as 300 people may have died.”
Biden is scheduled to visit Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Tuesday where he will deliver a speech and meet with survivors, Politico reported.
The Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission was reportedly putting together a “Remember & Rise” event on May 31 that was scheduled to include a performance by singer John Legend, and speakers, including Stacey Abrams. The event was canceled, however, “because lawyers representing survivors and descendants demanded a higher fee for their participation in the event than had been originally agreed upon, a commission official said,” NBC reported.
Tulsa Mayor GT Bynum posted a statement on social media about Biden’s visit, saying, “We are grateful that President Biden will join in the centennial commemoration of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. His visit honors our neighbors who were killed in this city’s worst moment and the work being done to build a better Tulsa for future generations.”
In his proclamation, Biden called on Americans “to reflect on the deep roots of racial terror in our Nation and recommit to the work of rooting out systemic racism across our country.”
“The Federal Government must reckon with and acknowledge the role that it has played in stripping wealth and opportunity from Black communities,” Biden said.
He also discussed his own policy proposals, adding, “The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to acknowledging the role Federal policy played in Greenwood and other Black communities and addressing longstanding racial inequities through historic investments in the economic security of children and families, programs to provide capital for small businesses in economically disadvantaged areas, including minority-owned businesses, and ensuring that infrastructure projects increase opportunity, advance racial equity and environmental justice, and promote affordable access.”
Read the proclamation below:
One hundred years ago, a violent white supremacist mob raided, firebombed, and destroyed approximately 35 square blocks of the thriving Black neighborhood of Greenwood in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Families and children were murdered in cold blood. Homes, businesses, and churches were burned. In all, as many as 300 Black Americans were killed, and nearly 10,000 were left destitute and homeless. Today, on this solemn centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre, I call on the American people to reflect on the deep roots of racial terror in our Nation and recommit to the work of rooting out systemic racism across our country. Before the Tulsa Race Massacre, Greenwood was a thriving Black community that had grown into a proud economic and cultural hub. At its center was Greenwood Avenue, commonly known as Black Wall Street. Many of Greenwood’s 10,000 residents were Black sharecroppers who fled racial violence after the Civil War. In the decades following the Civil War and Reconstruction, Greenwood became a place where Black Americans were able to make a new start and secure economic progress despite the continued pain of institutional and overt racism. The community was home to a growing number of prominent Black entrepreneurs as well as working-class Black families who shared a commitment to social activism and economic opportunity. As Greenwood grew, Greenwood Avenue teemed with successful Black-owned businesses, including restaurants, grocery stores, hotels, and offices for doctors, lawyers, and dentists. The community also maintained its own school system, post office, a savings and loan institution, hospital, and bus and taxi service. Despite rising Jim Crow systems and the reemergence of the Ku Klux Klan, Greenwood’s economic prosperity grew, as did its citizens’ demands for equal rights. This made the community a source of pride for many Black Americans. It also made the neighborhood and its families a target of white supremacists. In 2 days, a violent mob tore down the hard-fought success of Black Wall Street that had taken more than a decade to build. In the years that followed, the destruction caused by the mob was followed by laws and policies that made recovery nearly impossible. In the aftermath of the attack, local ordinances were passed requiring new construction standards that were prohibitively expensive, meaning many Black families could not rebuild. Later, Greenwood was redlined by mortgage companies and deemed “hazardous” by the Federal Government so that Black homeowners could not access home loans or credit on equal terms. And in later decades, Federal investment, including Federal highway construction, tore down and cut off parts of the community. The attack on Black families and Black wealth in Greenwood persisted across generations. The Federal Government must reckon with and acknowledge the role that it has played in stripping wealth and opportunity from Black communities. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to acknowledging the role Federal policy played in Greenwood and other Black communities and addressing longstanding racial inequities through historic investments in the economic security of children and families, programs to provide capital for small businesses in economically disadvantaged areas, including minority-owned businesses, and ensuring that infrastructure projects increase opportunity, advance racial equity and environmental justice, and promote affordable access. A century later, the fear and pain from the devastation of Greenwood is still felt. As Viola Fletcher, a 107-year-old survivor of the Tulsa Race Massacre courageously testified before the Congress recently, “I will never forget the violence of the white mob when we left our home. I still see Black men being shot, Black bodies lying in the street. I still smell smoke and see fire. I still see Black businesses being burned. I still hear airplanes flying overhead. I hear the screams. I have lived through the massacre every day. Our country may forget this history, but I cannot.” With this proclamation, I commit to the survivors of the Tulsa Race Massacre, including Viola Fletcher, Hughes Van Ellis, and Lessie Benningfield Randle, the descendants of victims, and to this Nation that we will never forget. We honor the legacy of the Greenwood community, and of Black Wall Street, by reaffirming our commitment to advance racial justice through the whole of our government, and working to root out systemic racism from our laws, our policies, and our hearts. NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 31, 2021, a Day of Remembrance: 100 Years After The 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. I call upon the people of the United States to commemorate the tremendous loss of life and security that occurred over those 2 days in 1921, to celebrate the bravery and resilience of those who survived and sought to rebuild their lives again, and commit together to eradicate systemic racism and help to rebuild communities and lives that have been destroyed by it. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth. JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
This article has been updated to provide clarity.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A top Russian official warned on Monday that President Joe Biden and the United States should prepare to be sent “uncomfortable” signals from Moscow in the coming days ahead of the scheduled summit between the U.S. and Russia.
The remarks came after Biden said on Sunday that he would press Putin on the issue of human rights, saying he would be “making it clear [the U.S.] will not stand by and let [Putin] abuse those rights.”
Sergei Ryabkov, Russia’s deputy foreign minister, said, “The Americans must assume that a number of signals from Moscow … will be uncomfortable for them, including in the coming days.”
Ryabkov’s comments come at the same time that Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said on Monday that Russia would be forming 20 new military units in the western part of the nation to counter what he claimed was a growing threat from NATO.
The Associated Press reports:
Sergei Shoigu made the announcement at a meeting with top military officials. He pointed to a growing number of flights by U.S. strategic bombers near Russia’s borders, deployments of NATO warships and increasingly frequent and major drills by alliance forces.
“The actions of our Western colleagues are destroying the world’s security system and force us to take adequate countermeasures,” Shoigu said. “Around 20 military formations and units will be formed in the Western Military District by the end of the year.”
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg responded to the remarks by Shoigu by saying that “NATO is a defensive alliance” that exists to “protect and defend our allies.”
“What you see is a pattern of Russian behavior, where Russia over the last years have invested heavily in new modern military capabilities from conventional to nuclear weapon systems,” Stoltenberg said. “But not only that but Russia has been willing to use military force against neighbors — in Georgia, in Ukraine,” he said, noting that Russia has increased its military presence in areas near Europe.
“This is one of the main reasons why NATO, in the last years, have increased readiness of our forces and also why we have deployed battletroops to the eastern part of our alliance,” he added.
The remarks out of Russia come after the editor of a top Chinese state-run newspaper recently warned that China needed to be prepared for nuclear war against the United States after Biden announced that he ordered the U.S. Intelligence Community to redouble their efforts in investigating the origins of the coronavirus pandemic.
“Given the intensifying US strategic containment of China, I would like to remind once again that we have many urgent tasks, but one of the most important is to keep rapidly increasing the number of nuclear warheads and strategic missiles like the Dongfeng 41 with extremely long-range and high survival capabilities,” Global Times editor Hu Xijin wrote in a post translated by Chinese human rights activist Jennifer Zeng. “This is the cornerstone of China’s strategic resilience against the United States.”
“We must be prepared for a high-intensity showdown between the US and China, at which point a large number of DF-41 and JL-2 and JL-3 will be the backbone of our strategic will. Our nuclear missiles must be so numerous that the US elite will tremble at the thought of military confrontation with China at that time,” Hu continued. “On such a basis, we can calmly and actively manage our differences with the US and avoid all kinds of gunfire. As US hostility toward China continues to burn, we need to use our strength and the unbearable risks they would face if they took the risk to force them to remain calm.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Speaking at the 153rd National Memorial Day Observance at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia, President Joe Biden used the event to claim that democracy is under attack, that “democracy” is the “soul of America,” and that diversity has always been an “incredible strength” when it comes to the armed forces.
“You know, America has been forged in the battle and the fires of war. Our freedom and the freedom of innumerable others has been secured by young men and women who answered the call of history and gave everything in the service of an idea: the idea of America,” Biden said. “It’s the greatest idea in the long history of humankind. An idea that we’re all created equal in the image of Almighty God. That we’re all entitled to dignity, as my father would say, and respect, decency, and honor. Love of neighbor. They’re not empty words, but the vital, beating heart of our nation.”
“And that democracy must be defended at all costs, for democracy makes all this possible. Democracy — that’s the soul of America, and I believe it’s a soul worth fighting for, and so do you; a soul worth dying for. Heroes who lie in eternal peace in this beautiful place, this sacred place, they believed that too,” Biden claimed.
The president then continued to argue that America has experienced a “perennial battle” between “our worst instincts” which “we’ve seen of late,” and that such a battle is characterized as “greed” against “generosity.”
Biden then claimed that “The Americans of Lexington and Concord, of New Orleans, Gettysburg, the Argonne, Iwo Jima and Normandy, Korea and Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq, and thousands of places in between weren’t fighting for dictators,” but were “fighting for democracy.”
“They weren’t fighting to exclude or to enslave; they were fighting to build and broaden and liberate. They weren’t fighting for self; they were fighting for the soul of the nation, for liberty and simple fair play — simple fair play and decency,” the president said.
Biden then shifted to use the sacrifice of American service men and women as a political platform, and presented democracy as “more than a form of government.”
“[Democracy is] a way of being; it’s a way of seeing the world,” Biden said, before describing democracy in an arguably collectivist context.
“The lives of billions, from antiquity to our own hour, have been shaped by the battle between aspirations of the many and the greed of the few. Between people’s right to self-determination and the self-seeking of the dictator. Between dreams of democracy and appetites for autocracy, which we’re seeing around the world,” Biden said. “Our troops have fought this battle on fields around the world, but also the battle of our time. And the mission falls to each of us, each and every day. Democracy itself is in peril, here at home and around the world.”
“What we do now — what we do now, how we honor the memory of the fallen, will determine whether or not democracy will long endure. We all take it for granted. We think we learned in school. You have to — every generation has to fight for it,” Biden continued. “But, look, it’s the biggest question: Whether a system that prizes the individual, that bends towards liberty, that gives everybody a chance at prosperity — whether that system can and will prevail against powerful forces that wish it harm.”
After again claiming that “the struggle for the soul of America itself” is part of the fight for democracy, Biden then made claims about both the electoral system and the media.
“Folks, you all know it: Democracy thrives when the infrastructure of democracy is strong; when people have the right to vote freely and fairly and conveniently; when a free and independent press pursues the truth, founded on facts, not propaganda; when the rule of law applies equally and fairly to every citizen, regardless of where they come from or what they look like,” Biden said.
Biden then concluded by claiming that “empathy is the fuel of democracy.”
“Let me say that again: Empathy — empathy is the fuel of democracy, a willingness to see each other — not as enemies, neighbors. Even when we disagree, to understand what the other is going through,” Biden argued.
Biden also made a comment regarding the diversity of the armed forces, saying “Americans of all backgrounds, races, creeds, gender identities, sexual orientations, have long spilled their blood to defend our democracy,” and that “The diversity of our country and our armed services is and always has been an incredible strength.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Several television networks have rejected an ad from a pro-life group that asserts the humanity of unborn children, saying the ad is “controversial” and “unacceptable.”
CBS, CMT, owned by ViacomCBS, and the Hallmark channel, owned by Crown Media, all rejected the 30-second spot from the Susan B. Anthony (SBA) List, a national pro-life group.
“Five decades of medical breakthroughs. Every age group has more opportunity to live except one. The unborn still fall victim to outdated laws,” the ad’s narrator says as the outline of an unborn baby from a pregnancy sonogram flashes across the screen.
“Science tells us that at fifteen weeks these babies have fully formed faces. They smile. They yawn. They feel pain,” the ad continues.
“Isn’t it time the law reflects the science?” the spot concludes.
We're launching an initial $2M campaign highlighting the humanity of unborn children as the Supreme Court prepares to review a landmark abortion case Watch the ad: pic.twitter.com/3xNV0Mm4sm — Susan B. Anthony List #HydeSavesLives (@SBAList) May 26, 2021
CBS rejected the ad on the grounds that it would violate their advocacy guidelines.
“Issue-oriented advertisements that are designed for the purpose of presenting views or influencing legislation on issues that are controversial by general public consensus are unacceptable,” CBS wrote in an email to the SBA List.
CMT, originally launched as Country Music Television, said that the network does accept some issue-oriented ads but not ones that are generally considered “controversial.”
“While we do accept political and issue-based ads on a case-by-case basis, issue-oriented ads that are designed for the purpose of presenting views or influencing legislation on issues that are controversial by general public consensus are unacceptable,” CMT wrote in an email to the pro-life group.
Meanwhile, Crown Media told the group that they could not accept the ad because it does not meet the Hallmark channel’s criteria for the positive experience Hallmark aims to offer viewers, according to the SBA List.
The SBA List launched the ad as as part of a $2 million television campaign in response to last month’s news that the Supreme Court will take up a case involving a Mississippi law that seeks to ban most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy.
The ad, paid for by the SBA List Education Fund, “doesn’t issue any calls to action to Congress or attack any candidate or politician,” the SBA List said.
“It simply praises the modern miracles of medicine and health care tech which have increased opportunities for every generation in the last 50 years, except for the unborn because the U.S. allows abortion on-demand through birth,” the group added.
In 2018, more than 619,500 abortions were performed in the U.S., according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data. About 11 abortions were performed per 1,000 women ages 15 to 44 and about 189 abortions per 1,000 live births.
In 2019, a Marist poll found that Americans are now as likely to identify as pro-life as pro-choice, with 47 percent identifying with each label. A few months later, an NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist poll found that a majority of Americans want at least some restrictions on abortion rights.
“SBA List simply seeks to educate the majority of Americans who support common sense pro-life policies and yet, are unaware of our nation’s extremely permissive abortion laws,” the group said. “Ideologically driven abortion allies in the media want to keep the status quo.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Monday, Job Creators Network, the nation’s leading small business advocacy organization, filed a lawsuit in federal court in New York against Major League Baseball (MLB), as well as MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred, the Major League Baseball Players Association and Executive Director Tony Clark, after Major League Baseball moved the All-Star game from Atlanta. The plaintiffs demand that the MLB return the game to Atlanta immediately or pay $100 million in damages to local and state small businesses.
In July 2019, MLB announced the 2021 All Star Game would be played at SunTrust Park (now named Truist Park), the home field of the Atlanta Braves. On March 26, 2021, Georgia Republican Gov. Brian Kemp signed the Election Integrity Act.
MLB alleged that the new law discriminated against voters, using that reasoning to remove the All-Star Game from Atlanta. President Biden chimed in that he “would support Major League Baseball moving this year’s All-Star Game out of Atlanta in response to recently signed legislation that tightens voting laws in Georgia,” adding to Sage Steele of ESPN, “This is Jim Crow on steroids, what they’re doing in Georgia.”
On April 2, 2021, the MLB announced that it was moving the All-Star Game out of Atlanta. Four days later it awarded the game to Denver, Colorado.
The lawsuit pointed out, “According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Atlanta has a 51% black population, while Denver’s black population is only 9%. U.S. Census Bureau data also indicates that there are roughly 7.5 times more black-owned small businesses in Georgia than Colorado.”
Cobb County Chief Financial Officer William Volckmann estimated that the All-Star Game at Truist Park in July would cost taxpayers roughly $2 million in expenses, but the county would see a “robust return” on the investment.
The lawsuit notes, “Indeed, over the past ten years, hosting cities have enjoyed economic activity ranging from $37 million to $190 million.”
“Many of our surrounding hotels/motels are already completely sold out and the travel and tourism industry, restaurants and event venues will certainly benefit from the All-Star Game,” Volckman said.
The lawsuit continued:
Critics of the bill also falsely claimed the new Georgia bill would prohibit food or drink from being passed out to people waiting in line to vote. As The Daily Wire previously reported, the bill does not prevent people waiting in line to vote from receiving food or water, but politicians and their staff cannot provide it in an effort to secure votes. Poll workers can pass out water or food as they see fit. The damages resulting from the cancellation of the All-Star Game in Atlanta are staggering. More than 8,000 hotel reservations were canceled; revenues from ticket sales and stadium food by the more than 41,000 expected to attend the events at Truist Park were lost.
President Biden stated of the Election Integrity Act, “Imagine passing a law saying you cannot provide water or food for someone standing in line to vote? Can’t do that? Come on. Or you’re going to close a polling place at five o’clock when working people just get off? This is all about keeping working folks and ordinary folks that I grew up with from being able to vote.”
As The Daily Wire previously reported, “the damages resulting from the cancellation of the All-Star Game in Atlanta are staggering. More than 8,000 hotel reservations were canceled; revenues from ticket sales and stadium food by the more than 41,000 expected to attend the events at Truist Park were lost.”
“MLB robbed the small businesses of Atlanta – many of them minority-owned – of $100 million, we want the game back where it belongs,” Alfredo Ortiz, president and CEO of the Job Creators Network, stated. “This was a knee-jerk, hypocritical and illegal reaction to misinformation about Georgia’s new voting law which includes Voter-ID. Major League Baseball itself requests ID at will-call ticket windows at Yankee Stadium in New York, Busch Stadium in St. Louis and at ballparks all across the country.”
“Small businesses in this community had valid contracts relating to the All-Star Game and other events, the result of two years of planning and all that was ripped away by fear and misinformation spewed by political activists,” Ortiz added. “Many states, including Colorado where the game has been moved to, have similar or more restrictive election laws. This move essentially tells fans of teams in many other cities that they can never again host the All-Star Game; it’s hypocritical, illegal and we won’t stand for it.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Google’s union, the Alphabet Workers Union, launched a petition on Tuesday titled “#DropTheDeadnames,” demanding that employees be permitted to use their chosen names on company ID badges. This campaign began after Phares Lee, a biological woman who is transgender, asked to have their “deadname” removed from their badge while employed by a subcontracting security firm to work at a Google data center in South Carolina. Their request was denied.
Addressed to Google’s Chief Diversity Officer, On-site Google Security Manager and Site Operations Manager, the petition began, “We believe Google and G4S must build a better workplace. That means creating a workforce that is more representative of our users, and a workplace that creates a sense of belonging for everyone.”
“We believe Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are vital for providing community, personal, and professional development opportunities for Googlers from underrepresented communities,” the petition continued. “Therefore, we believe that Google and G4S must make the following immediate corrective actions:”
The campaign then listed five “corrective actions.”
Issue a valid ID badge to “Phares Lee” instead of only accepting the one with his dead name on it. Cease reverting his preferred name to his dead name after Phares attempts to update it within Google’s online systems (Teams/MOMA). Communicate to all temporary, vendor, and contract workers (TVCs) that they are free and able to meet with ERGs during office hours and events during their working time—the same as Google full-time employees (FTEs). Communicate to all TVCs that they are also permitted to communicate and participate with ERGs during non-working time—the same as Google FTEs. Create a “Chosen Name Policy” that covers all FTEs and TVCs alike; ensures publicly displayed names reflect a chosen name where it differs from their legal name; allows pronoun stickers to be displayed on name badges, and protects the right to privacy of dead names.
“I’ve been facing workplace issues that feel like discrimination to my gender identity, but it’s not just about me as an individual. Google and G4S need to make changes so that no one else has to go through what I’ve had to” said Lee, according to the petition.
In addition to signing the petition, viewers are encouraged to “Wear a ‘Hello my name is’ sticker to work,” or “Post a selfie in solidarity” with the hashtag, #DropTheDeadnames.
“For Lee, Google’s value of a ‘workplace that creates a sense of belonging for everyone’ has not been extended to TVCs (Google’s term for temps, vendors, and contractors) like him,” the campaign explains. “He has requested repeatedly to remove his deadname from his name badge, only to be denied. He repeatedly changed his deadname to his chosen name on Google’s Teams/MOMA, only to have it revert to his deadname. Finally, he was told he’s not even allowed to talk to corporate-created Employee Resource Groups which were set up to support underrepresented communities. None of this ‘creates a sense of belonging.’” (Emphasis added by campaign).
Deadnaming is a term used to describe the use of a transgender person’s birth or former name, often without the person’s “consent.”
As of Tuesday afternoon, the petition had 345 signatories.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.High-level prosecutors from around the country will try cases against alleged participants in the January 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, a Daily Wire review of court records shows.
The U.S. Attorney for Washington, D.C. has called in prosecutors from unrelated areas of its office, including the Violent Crime Narcotics Trafficking Section, Homicide Section, Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, Sex Offense and Domestic Violence Section, and Major Crimes Section. In some cases the prosecutors from those departments are prosecuting misdemeanors only.
It has also called in prosecutors from special sections of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and from federal prosecutor’s offices across the country.
Steven Ward, a trial attorney at the Department of Justice’s Counterterrorism Section who is helping prosecute Capitol riot defendants, previously assisted in the case against a Brooklyn resident who was found guilty of working to support ISIS.
As the number of federal criminal cases against Capitol riot suspects climbs, the office has also brought in reinforcements from across the country, tapping at least 25 prosecutors from 17 states and Puerto Rico to prosecute at least 140 defendants in Capitol riot cases, The Daily Wire found.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Benet Kearney, who is prosecuting at least four January 6 defendants accused of assaulting police officers, is on loan from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York in lower Manhattan, a district known for prosecuting major financial fraud and high-profile crimes such as the case against accused sex trafficker and billionaire Jeffrey Epstein.
Many of the cases follow a cookie-cutter pattern involving some combination of trespassing and disorderly conduct charges as well as “Parading, Demonstrating, or Picketing in a Capitol Building.”
Former U.S. Attorney for Utah Brett Tolman told The Daily Wire “This is beyond aggressive, and it’s also one-size-fits-all.”
“There seems to be no careful analysis of the individual criminal intent or lack thereof, and that’s what a prosecutor’s first line of scrutiny and judgment is supposed to be considering,” Tolman said.
The external prosecutors hail from Alaska, Florida, Kansas, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Albuquerque, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, New Orleans, Philadelphia, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, Seattle, St. Louis, and U.S. territory Puerto Rico.
In some of those cases, prosecutors from the D.C. U.S. Attorney’s Office are also assigned to the same cases.
Hundreds of supporters of former President Donald Trump stunned the nation when they forced their way into the Capitol building just as a joint session of Congress convened to certify the results of the presidential election. So far, at least 500 people have been charged in connection with the Capitol riot. The defendants range in age from 18 to 70, the vast majority of them men.
Then-acting Washington, D.C. U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin said in January that the cases had overwhelmed the office.
“The scope and scale of this investigation and these cases are really unprecedented, not only in FBI history, but probably DOJ history,” he said less than a week after the chaos in the nation’s capital.
Channing Phillips, who previously held the role during the Barack Obama administration, now oversees the office.
There does not appear to be a correlation between the severity of the charges and how many prosecutors are assigned to a specific case. Some cases that involve only misdemeanor charges have more than one prosecutor assigned to them, while in other cases involving felony charges, one prosecutor from outside Washington, D.C. is the sole lawyer taking on the case.
In one case, a prosecutor from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Puerto Rico was assigned to craft the case against an Albany man accused of assaulting a police officer during riot, and public defenders from Puerto Rico were assigned to defend the man.
The prosecutor from Puerto Rico, Sean Patrick Murphy, is prosecuting at least eight defendants. One Los Angeles prosecutor, Hava Arin Levenson Mirell, is prosecuting a dozen defendants. Florida prosecutor Robert Craig Juman is prosecuting 10.
Along with many of the other outside prosecutors, Kearney, the New York assistant U.S. attorney, regularly prosecutes high-level white collar crime such as wire fraud. Missouri Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony L. Franks, who is prosecuting at least four defendants, says on his LinkedIn profile that he works on “investigation and prosecution of white-collar crime and financial fraud.”
The number of prosecutors who have been sucked into prosecuting the hundreds of Capitol riot defendants has also thinned out resources for other federal priorities such as cases involving fentanyl distribution.
Some prosecutors who have been assigned to Capitol riot cases are also working on cases involving the distribution of fentanyl, which has reached critical levels in places like San Francisco.
Kansas prosecutor Mona Furst, who is prosecuting at least six defendants, also worked on a major meth trafficking case last year.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Nearly a year after “anarchist” violence began raging in Portland, Oregon, the Washington Post reported Tuesday that the “social justice” movement inspiring the often-destructive demonstrations is “splintered” and bickering over purposes and methods.
Portland’s homicide and gun violence rates have skyrocketed, as The Daily Wire reported on Monday, and the city’s minority residents are pressing back on the “social justice” movement, blaming the black-clad anarchists for forgetting the purpose of the Black Lives Matter movement that launched last year in the wake of George Floyd’s death.
Now, the Washington Post said, the movement itself is in disarray, torn apart by disagreement over methods and concerns about whether the movement should prioritize defunding and dismantling the police force given that violent crime is on the rise and minority communities are most affected by the spike.
“After months of social-justice activism that made Portland a vivid, sometimes violent focal point for a nation debating the same issues around police accountability and reform, the movement here has splintered into bickering groups, at odds over tactics, goals, and an overall direction for how to make the city safer, with the police force still at the debate’s bitter center,” the outlet reported.
After a year of nightly riots, which peaked over the summer when self-described “anarchists” targeted downtown federal buildings, including a federal courthouse, Portland’s downtown is a burned-out shell.
“Portland’s once-vibrant downtown, the heart of a world-class food scene, is still marred by boarded-up windows and closed businesses, the aftermath of a year of pandemic and fear of random assault and vandalism often committed under the name of the police reform movement,” the Washington Post noted on Tuesday.
“The rising gun violence, and for a time the downtown demonstrations, have stressed the police department and put it largely on its back foot, as a response unit rather than a force with resources to prevent crime,” the outlet added. “As one measure, police response time to emergency calls has more than doubled over the past eight years, to more than 40 minutes of wait-time before a call is even fielded by emergency dispatchers.”
Most residents now favor expanding the police department, not contracting it, and the nightly fires are not helping the matter.
The situation is now so bad that Portland’s Mayor Ted Wheeler came out recently and condemned the “anarchist” violence that he largely tolerated throughout the final year of the Trump administration.
“For nearly nine months protesters have called for police reform and an end to systemic racism in Portland, which has become a key city in the country’s racial reckoning,” The Associated Press reported last month. “While officials say many events have been peaceful, there continues to be small groups smashing windows of businesses, threatening community members, and assaulting police.”
“The community is sick and tired of people engaging in criminal destruction and violence and doing it under the guise of some noble cause,” Wheeler told a press conference.
“Portland has always had this great tradition of protest,” Wheeler added more recently. “But the anarchists that joined into the demonstration really co-opted what had been a nonviolent message in favor of change. And now that group has gotten much smaller, but also much more blatant in the damage they are causing and the targets they are picking.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.World No. 2 tennis star, Naomi Osaka, withdrew from the French Open on Monday, citing “long bouts of depression” as her reason for taking a step back from the game.
Osaka previously declined to speak with reporters before the tournament, garnering a $15,000 fine as a result and facing backlash online. Osaka put out a statement on her decision to withdraw:
I think now the best thing for the tournament, the other players and my well-being is that I withdraw so that everyone can get back to focusing on the tennis going on in Paris. I never wanted to be a distraction and I accept that my timing was not ideal and my message could have been clearer,” she continued. “More importantly, I would never trivialize mental health or use the term lightly. The truth is that I have suffered long bouts of depression since the U.S. Open in 2018 and I have had a really hard time coping with that. Anyone that knows me knows I’m introverted, and anyone that has seen me at the tournaments will notice that I’m often wearing headphones as that helps dull my social anxiety.
The topic of mental health has slowly been working its way into mainstream sports over the past several years. NBA players Kevin Love and DeMar DeRozan both publicly discussed their struggles with anxiety and depression in 2018, allowing the topic to be more easily discussed in the sports world.
“I feel for Naomi. Not everyone is the same. I’m thick. Other people are thin,” 23-time grand slam champion Serena Williams said. “Everyone is different, and everyone handles things differently. You just have to let her handle it the way she wants to and the best way she thinks she can. That’s the only thing I can say: I think she is doing the best she can.”
Osaka’s decision to withdraw from the French Open caused many athletes to take to social media in support of her decision to prioritize her mental health.
Russell Wilson of the Seattle Seahawks wrote “We are with you @naomiosaka #Courage.”
“Love, respect, and positive energy your way @naomiosaka,” Kevin Love wrote on Twitter.
“I am so sad about Naomi Osaka,” tennis legend Martina Navratilova said. “I truly hope she will be ok. As athletes we are taught to take care of our body, and perhaps the mental & emotional aspect gets short shrift. This is about more than doing or not doing a press conference. Good luck Naomi- we are all pulling for you!”
I am so sad about Naomi Osaka.I truly hope she will be ok. As athletes we are taught to take care of our body, and perhaps the mental & emotional aspect gets short shrift. This is about more than doing or not doing a press conference. Good luck Naomi- we are all pulling for you! — Martina Navratilova (@Martina) May 31, 2021
Formula 1 driver Lewis Hamilton commented on Osaka’s post, supporting her decision to prioritize her health.
“We are only human beings. Mental health is not a joke, this is real and serious. This takes a lot of courage to do. Let’s all make sure Naomi knows she’s not alone. Today is a good day to check and ask your friends and loved ones how they are doing and let them know they are not alone. A simple text can go a long way.”
📲 IG Story | Lewis Hamilton comments on Naomi Osaka withdrawing from the #FrenchOpen .
"We are only human beings. Mental health is not a joke, this is real and serious. This takes a lot of courage to do. Let's all make sure Naomi knows she is not alone." pic.twitter.com/BkzZd2AGSl — Sir Lewis Hamilton Updates (@SirLewisUpdates) June 1, 2021
Nike — Osaka’s apparel sponsor since 2019 — released a statement supporting her decision.
“Our thoughts are with Naomi,” the statement read according to USA Today. “We support her and recognize her courage in sharing her own mental health experience.”
Joe Morgan is the Sports Reporter for The Daily Wire. Most recently, Morgan covered the Clippers, Lakers and the NBA for Sporting News. Send your sports questions to sports@dailywire.com.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Qiu Ziming, who has 2.5 million followers on microblogging site Weibo, has been sentenced to eight months in jail after making “slanderous” comments about Chinese soldiers who died during a Himalayan border clash with Indian troops in 2020.
Qiu, who is 38-years-old, was found guilty of “slandering heroes and martyrs,” according to the BBC, adding that Chinese state newspaper, the Global Times, said that “he is the first to be criminally charged under the offense following an amendment to China’s criminal law.” Under this law, those found guilty “can be imprisoned for up to three years.”
“Internet celebrity sentenced to 8 months in jail for defaming martyrs,” reported The Global Times.
“Qiu, known as ‘Labixiaoqiu’ online, was also ordered to publicly apologize through major domestic portals and the national media within 10 days to eliminate the negative impact, a court in Nanjing, East China’s Jiangsu Province ruled,” the report added.
The Global Times accused Qiu of releasing “false information” on Sina Weibo, “smearing the four heroes who were killed when dealing with the Indian military’s illegal trespassing of the Galwan Valley Line of Actual Control.”
In addition to his sentence, Qiu was ordered to apologize, appearing on state broadcaster CCTV.
“I feel extremely ashamed of myself, and I’m very sorry,” said Qiu, according to the state outlet. “My behavior was an annihilation of conscience.”
After “slandering” the Chinese soldiers, Qiu was detained and later confessed to “illegal behavior to gain the attention of netizens, distorting facts on Weibo and slandering and demeaning the heroes defending the border,” according to the BBC report. Qiu — who wasn’t the only blogger targeted by authorities for comments on the border clash between Chinese and Indian military in the Galwan Valley in mid-2020 — was also banned for one year on Weibo.
As The Daily Wire reported in June 2020, “Three Indian troops — an Army officer and two soldiers — were killed … by the soldiers from communist China amid an ongoing border dispute between the world’s two most populated nations, both of which are also nuclear powers.”
The incident occurred following a weeks-long stand-off between the two nations in the Galwan valley in western Himalayas, with both nations “accusing each other of trespassing into the other’s territory,” Reuters reported, while tensions in the region between the two countries have existed for decades.
Until February when they honored four soldiers, China refused to acknowledge that there had been any Chinese casualties. According to U.S. News & World Report at the time, Indian government officials claimed that 20 Indian soldiers had died in the fighting and that somewhere between 35 and 43 Chinese soldiers were also killed.
Sina Weibo, the Chinese microblogging website, was launched in 2009, and is one of the largest social media platforms in China, with more than 335 million monthly active users as of Q3 2018. Competitors, such as Twitter and Facebook, are blocked by the Chinese regime.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Freshman Republican Rep. Nancy Mace (SC) woke up, Memorial Day, to a series of profane slogans, anarchist symbols, and demands to pass the “PRO” act spraypainted across her home and property according to the Congresswoman’s staff, which released a video chronicling the damage on Tuesday.
Mace has become a target for Democrats — and, particularly, progressives — after suggesting, on Twitter, that fellow Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) was embellishing her experience during the January 6th riot at the United States Capitol, after Ocasio-Cortez said, in her own social media posting, that she hid in a closet in her office to avoid the insurrectionists. Mace noted that her office is just down the hallway from Ocasio-Cortez’s and that no insurrectionists stormed their section of the building.
The Tweet triggered an intense backlash from Ocasio-Cortez that, according to progressives, devolved into a “feud,” with Ocasio-Cortez accusing Mace of “silencing victims” of the January 6th incident. Mace, who is a survivor of sexual assault, fired back by telling media that Ocasi0-Cortez “made clear she didn’t know who was at her door” and that the progressive Congresswoman’s “[b]reathless attempts by media to fan fictitious news flames are dangerous.”
On Monday, Mace’s South Carolina home, where she lives with her family, was targeted in a graffiti attack, according to a statement, a Twitter posting, and a video released by her staff.
“A statement and a video put out by Mace’s congressional office shows graffiti painted on the street outside of the freshman Republican congresswoman’s home, the sidewalk leading up to the house and on the side of her home,” the Charlotte Observer reported.
“Part of the graffiti on the sidewalk reads, ‘No gods, no masters, all politicians are bastards,’ and is followed by the anarchist ‘A’ symbol,” the outlet noted. “‘Pass the pro act’ also was spray-painted on the side of her home, referring to a bill currently in Congress that would protect the rights of workers to organize.”
Mace’s Twitter post and her video show more profane language spraypainted on a nearby sidewalk.
In the early morning hours of Memorial Day, my home, where I’m raising my two children, was vandalized with Antifa symbols and profanity. Although my kids and I are thankfully fine, these criminal acts are unacceptable no matter your politics. pic.twitter.com/OIN5byPp0I — Nancy Mace (@NancyMace) June 1, 2021
“Early on Memorial Day, my home was vandalized w/ spray-painted ANTIFA graffiti. This kind of illegal act of intimidation shows the destructive division in our country and just how dangerous it can be,” Mace added on social media.
“Although my kids and I are thankfully fine, the criminal events at my home where I’m raising my two children are unacceptable no matter your politics,” she said, identifying the perpetrators as members of the “anti-fascist” group, Antifa. “I sincerely appreciate law enforcement doing all they can to find the criminal trespassers who vandalized my home with Antifa symbols and profanity on Memorial Day.”
“There is a significant difference between nonviolent protests and criminal acts of intimidation and vandalism,” Mace concluded. “We should all be able to feel safe in our own homes, regardless of our political beliefs.”
Mace’s video shows how close the vandals came to the family’s living space.
CNN reported later Tuesday morning that the Charleston South Carolina Police Department had opened an investigation into the matter but have yet to identify a suspect or make an arrest.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.In a cover interview for Paper magazine that hit the web Wednesday, Gwen Stefani once again refused to provide an answer to one of Hollywood’s favorite guessing games — what are her political views?
In 2012, the singer was a major fundraiser for Barack Obama’s campaign. But that was before her relationship with country star Blake Shelton. Since then, Stefani has made no further personal political donations and seems to have adopted her fiancé’s policy of keeping her party allegiance to herself.
“I can see how people would be curious, but I think it’s pretty obvious who I am,” the Voice coach told reporter Kat Gillespie. “I’ve been around forever.”
Stefani then explained that she sees no reason celebs should have to divulge their decisions in the voting booth. “The whole point of voting,” she said, “is you have this personal space to feel how you feel. I use my platform to share my life story and to engage with people and to exchange whatever gift I was giving. I’m not a political science major. I am not that person. Everyone knows that. So why would I even talk about it?”
Stefani also downplayed a feminist reading of her monster 1995 hit, “Just a Girl,” saying, “I don’t even know if I knew what feminist at that time was. I was very sheltered growing up with my family. I wasn’t political. I wasn’t angry.” The No Doubt frontwoman then described a philosophy of personal empowerment that doesn’t rely on group identity. “I don’t need to go on Instagram and say ‘girl power.’ I just need to live and be a good person and leave a trail of greatness behind me. Stop talking about it and stop trying to bully everybody about it. Just do it.”
Shelton similarly declined to jump on the anti-Trump bandwagon in a 2016 interview with Billboard. Rather than following the lead of so many in his industry and condemning the former Apprentice host, he tried to explain why cancel culture and speech suppression led voters in red states like his native Oklahoma to enthusiastically support Trump’s candidacy.
“I’m not going to have the political conversation with you about Trump, or about Hillary Clinton, but I will tell you this: Whether you love him or hate him, he says what he thinks, and he has proven that you don’t always have to be so afraid. A lot of people are pulling for him, no matter how much Hollywood fights it.” He then added, “I see people who don’t like him go and beat up people that do like him. You tell me, who’s crazy here? I probably wish there was another option, but there’s not.”
Shelton’s insights drew the wrath of committed Hollywood leftists like Debra Messing, who begged Stefani to “Please talk to your man to not vote for the person who will STRIP you of your rights.” Messing later apologized for her comments, but only after Shelton clarified that his statement was not meant to be read as an endorsement for any candidate.“See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ” (Colossians 2:8).
Progressive Christian movements across the globe are amalgamating with the new religion of “wokeness.”
Declaring that it “could be described as trans,” the Church of Sweden recently penned a letter to adherents of the LGBTQ movement within its borders, apologizing to “trans” Swedes for “how the media has treated you,” mourning “the part of feminism that has fought for its rights and that now wants to limit yours.”
In an op-ed for The Daily Wire, Pastor John MacArthur picked apart American Christians’ alliance with the modern social justice movement: “Evangelical leaders are beginning to employ the same rhetoric and rationale of victimhood vs. oppression that is relentlessly employed by secularists who advocate for all kinds of deviant lifestyles and ideologies.”
“Key leaders throughout the evangelical movement have begun preaching doctrines and using rhetoric borrowed directly from the catalogues of CRT literature,” continued the longtime minister. “Viewpoints and vocabulary like ‘white privilege’ and ‘systemic racism’ have literally been added to the liturgy or adopted as articles of faith in some evangelical organizations.”
Despite MacArthur’s warning that wokeness is “a worse form of ‘worldliness’ than Christians in earlier generations ever contemplated,” professing Christian denominations in the United States — whether consistently liberal or traditionally conservative — are experiencing a leftward shift.
Here are five examples of American churches going woke.
PCUSA — Racial justice resources
The Presbyterian Church (U.S.) published a list of “racial justice resources” in the summer of 2020 — a move that imitates student activists on secular campuses, who frequently lean upon resource lists to propagate their views.
Following the death of George Floyd, the denomination released over one dozen statements about the dangers of systemic racism. A press release from Presbyterian Women Inc., for example, reaffirmed the group’s “commitment to dismantling institutional and structural racism, white supremacy, and white privilege following the recent and ongoing practice of police brutality and murders of people of color.” Another release from the denomination’s “Special Committee on Racism Truth and Reconciliation” called for “white people to recognize their privilege in society and engage in the work of eliminating racism and racist acts against people of color.”
Beyond reading the denomination’s past statements, congregants were invited to order yard signs emblazoned with the slogan “Presbyterians Affirm Black Lives Matter.”
Southern Baptist Convention — Resolution 9
Although the Southern Baptist Denomination — the largest association of evangelicals in the United States — has historically rejected progressive views on sociological issues, the group has shown early signs of a leftward drift.
During its 2019 meeting, the Southern Baptist Convention approved Resolution 9 — “On Critical Race Theory And Intersectionality.” Although some pastors suggested that the resolution call the two frameworks “godless ideologies that are indebted to radical feminism and postmodernism, and neo-Marxism,” the final draft framed critical race theory as “a set of analytical tools that explain how race has and continues to function in society.”
Instead of describing the ideologies as fundamentally opposed to the biblical worldview, Resolution 9 claims that “critical race theory and intersectionality have been appropriated by individuals with worldviews that are contrary to the Christian faith.” Evangelical scholars may employ “selective insights” from the frameworks to understand “multifaceted social dynamics.”
Although it proclaimed Scripture as Christianity’s “sufficient authority,” it repeated that critical race theory and intersectionality could nevertheless be “employed as analytical tools.”
Episcopal Church — Repentance for racism
The Episcopal Church developed a liturgy specifically to address racism.
In a far more aggressive measure than Resolution 9, the denomination declared that systemic racial injustices “still occur in multiple contexts including but not limited to education; employment; housing; health care; banking; voting rights; immigration; policing, courts, and prisons.”
The denomination committed to “increase the use of study, education, research, anti-racism training, liturgies, and Christian formation instruction that specifically address systemic racial injustice.” Accordingly, the body’s Standing Commission on Liturgy and Music created a subcommittee on “Racial Reconciliation,” which produced “a Litany of Repentance and Commissioning for the Ministry of Justice and Reconciliation.”
“The sin of racism is woven into our lives and our cultures, in small and great ways, in things done and things left undone,” read the litany. “In the assurance of our forgiveness, let us kneel before God and humbly confess our sins: our participation in racism, our privilege based on racism, and our perpetuation of racism.”
United Methodist Church — Endorsing Ibram X. Kendi
Joining other denominations, the United Methodist Church published a statement condemning racism following the death of George Floyd.
Quoting Bishop Bruce Ough of Minneapolis, the denomination’s Council of Bishops declared that “in addition to fighting COVID-19, we are besieged by a pandemic of racism, white supremacy, and white on black or brown violence.”
The bishops also drew from the words of leading critical race theorist and Boston University professor Ibram X. Kendi in asking congregants to “read all they can on the subject of anti-racism.”
“By not running from the books that pain us, we can allow them to transform us. I ran from antiracist books most of my life,” said Kendi, as quoted by the bishops. “But now I can’t stop running after them — scrutinizing myself and my society, and in the process changing both.”
Kendi denounces “savior theology” in favor of “liberation theology” — the notion that “the job of the Christian is to liberate oppressed peoples from their oppression.” As commentator Allie Beth Stuckey notes, this leads Kendi and other adherents of liberation theology to miss the central importance of “freedom from sin and eternal death” as a result of the work of Jesus Christ — in other words, “the gospel itself.”
Evangelical Lutheran Church — Anti-racism pledge
In a similar move as other denominations, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America created an “anti-racism pledge” for its members.
“I commit to study, prayer and action to become an anti-racist individual in an anti-racist church,” said the pledge, which the denomination encouraged members to broadcast on social media with the hashtag “#ELCA4justice.”
Beyond signing and spreading the pledge, the denomination encouraged congregants to “learn the history of systemic racism in this country” and the ways racism and “white supremacy” touch “every aspect of our life together.” In addition to “joining community organizations working for racial justice” and “advancing racially equitable public policies,” the denomination pressed the importance of listening to the “expertise of people of color.”
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.West Virginia Republican Governor Jim Justice announced on Tuesday that his state would be giving away lots of highly desirable prizes as part of a lottery effort to get more of the state’s residents vaccinated against the coronavirus.
The lottery will run from June 20, which is father’s day, through August 4 and the drawings will happen once a week. To be eligible residents need to receive at least one vaccine shot.
According to WTRF, the first lottery will include:
One prize of $1 million
Two full four-year scholarships to any West Virginia institution (must be aged 12-25)
Two custom trucks
25 weekend getaways to West Virginia state parks
Five lifetime hunting and fishing licenses
Five custom hunting rifles
Five custom shotguns
“West Virginia will give away 1 million dollar winner for 5 straight weeks,” WTRF reported. “The last lottery, on August 4, will consist of 2 grand prize winners. 1 winner will win $ 1,588,000 and another winner will win $588,000.”
“Today, on June 1, we have well in excess of 75% of our people that are 50 years of age or older, that have received the first shot,” Justice said. “And, and that is wonderful, wonderful news. Also, today, we also hit 84%, of our 65 years of age and older. And so we’re 1%, 1% away from a lofty, lofty goal, to have 85% of our folks vaccinated, that are 65 years of age and older.”
During the press conference, Justice announced that the state has received tax revenue surpluses in the hundreds of millions of dollars over the last couple of months.
Justice also addressed the questions that some people may have about why the state is giving away prizes to get as many people vaccinated as possible, saying, “the faster we get them across the finish line, the more lives we save.”
“Absolutely, that’s all there is to it,” Justice continued. “It’s just as simple as just that, you know, the faster we get them across the finish line, the more money we save as a state. And absolutely these dollars become not minuscule, because these are real dollars that we’re giving away. But absolutely, at the end of the day, if the tab just keeps running, the cost is enormous. The testing cost is enormous. The hospitalizations are enormous. The deaths are really, really bad. And so we got to get our all of our folks across the finish line.”
The state is in the process of setting up a website where residents who have been vaccinated can enter their information for a chance to win one of the prizes.
Ohio Republican Governor Mike DeWine last month that adults who get vaccinated will be entered into a drawing to win $1 million and that children who get vaccinated will be entered into a drawing to win a full-ride scholarship to attend state universities in Ohio.
This report has been updated to include additional information and quotes from West Virginia’s governor.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Henry Slade, an English rugby star, told reporters that he does not plan to take the COVID-19 vaccine, becoming the first high-profile British athlete to do so.
Speaking with The Daily Telegraph, Slade said, “I have had vaccines in the past and have fallen pretty unwell with them afterwards.”
“I don’t know if that has anything to do with the diabetes or not. I am going to stay away from this one. I just think there hasn’t been anywhere near enough testing to deem it safe,” Slade continued.
According to NHS guidelines, “The vaccines approved for use in the UK have met strict standards of safety, quality and effectiveness set out by the independent Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.”
Since Slade has Type 1 diabetes, he was offered the vaccine as part of the “sixth priority group,” but said that he “does not fancy it at all.”
“I’m not going to have a vaccine. I don’t agree with it all. I don’t think you can trust it, can you? I don’t think it [vaccination against COVID-19] has been going long,” Slade said. “There is no way of knowing what could happen with it in the future. I’m perfectly fit and healthy. I don’t fancy it at all.”
Slade’s comments sparked a major backlash, with the rugby star releasing a statement in response:
Following an article in today’s Telegraph newspaper, I would like to make the following statement. The comments attributed to me in regards to the Covid-19 vaccination form a very small part of an exclusive interview I had with the newspaper, which was set up to talk about living with Type-1 diabetes. Not only as a professional sportsman but also [as] a person who has to closely monitor my health levels every day, I am acutely aware of the importance of vaccines and the role it plays in helping save lives. From my own personal experience, I have encountered issues in the past with the use of vaccines and I am continually wary around this area. That said, I have no hidden agenda against the current, nationwide roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. When the time comes for me to make an informed decision on whether or not I take up the option of having the vaccination, I will of course consider the thoughts of my family and friends, the latest Government advice, as well as all others around me. In no way whatsoever am I offering advice to the general public as to the pros and cons of the vaccination programme. Everyone has a right to their own opinion on this matter, but given my past experiences, I wish to make the correct decision for myself.
Despite widespread criticism of Slade, fellow England rugby star, Courtney Lawes, spoke out in his defense.
“I wonder how many people abusing sladey right now have tweeted “be kind” in the last couple of month’s,” Lawes tweeted. “Guess we’re not ‘stamping out’ online abuse atm?”
“Thing is I’ll defend your right to say what u like, but I just want to tell u guys, u ain’t the good people u think u are,” the England and Northampton player added.
I wonder how many people abusing sladey right now have tweeted “be kind” in the last couple of month’s 🤔
Guess we’re not “stamping out” online abuse atm? Thing is I’ll defend your right to say what u like, but I just want to tell u guys, u ain’t the good people u think u are. — Courtney Lawes (@Courtney_Lawes) May 28, 2021
According to the latest CDC guidelines, COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective.”
“Vaccines are now more widely accessible in the U.S. Everyone ages 12 and older is recommended to get a COVID-19 vaccination,” the CDC adds.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.President Joe Biden released an unprecedented $6 trillion budget proposal on the Friday before Memorial Day, leading critics to speculate that — given the timing — he wanted his economic plans to avoid media scrutiny.
If so, mission accomplished.
While the media have noted the historical increases to federal spending and the national debt, media coverage has passed on at least four major lies about the Biden budget.
Biden’s budget won’t raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000
Joe Biden campaigned for president last year on a pledge not to raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 a year. On Friday, CNN repeated the administration’s assurances that this proposed, enormous budget is “more than paid for by the reforms to the tax code that would require the wealthiest of Americans and corporations to pay higher taxes. The [p]resident has repeatedly pledged that Americans making less than $400,000 would not have to pay increased taxes.”
But CNN ignored the facts: Biden’s talking out of both sides of his mouth.
First, his budget figures assume a massive tax increase on working — and middle-class Americans. Credit goes to the New York Times’ Jim Tankersley, who reported:
Mr. Biden and Congress will allow tax cuts for low- and middle-income Americans, signed into law by President Donald J. Trump in 2017, to expire as scheduled in 2025. Mr. Biden has said he will not raise taxes on people earning less than $400,000 a year. It is possible that he could propose to extend the Trump tax cuts for those earners in a future budget, potentially coupled with additional tax increases on high earners or businesses.
President Donald Trump’s Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 reduced taxes for people across the income spectrum, according to an analysis from the nonpartisan Tax Foundation. The greatest percentage cut (2.8%) came to those making between $20,000 and $50,000 a year.
But then, acting budget director Shalanda Young explained away that broken campaign promise by saying the administration would pass legislation before 2025 to keep those tax hikes from happening.
So, out of one side of its mouth, the administration says the budget is “paid for” (see below) through tax increases, based on letting the Trump tax cuts expire completely. Then, out of the other side, the administration promises to make sure those taxes never rise. One of these two statements is untrue.
Biden’s budget will make America more competitive with China
Perhaps the strangest allegation comes from National Public Radio (at your expense). “The proposal is the biggest budget in recent history,” NPR notes rightly, “reflecting the massive government spending plans Biden rolled out this spring in his push to bolster the middle class and make the United States more competitive with China.”
NPR did not explain how racking up trillion-dollar deficits for the next decade improves the U.S. position against China, the largest foreign holder of U.S. debt at $1.3 trillion (and counting).
But certain provisions in the bill would definitely bolster Beijing. Americans for Tax Reform noted that the budget’s proposal would raise corporate taxes to “a combined federal and state rate of 32 percent, higher than Communist China.” The tax provisions would make the United States “uncompetitive with China, encouraging companies to move U.S. jobs and capital overseas.”
Biden’s budget will be ‘paid for in 15 years’
Media coverage of Biden’s budget let the president get away with one of his favorite financial gimmicks. Reuters reported, “White House officials said the Biden’s $4 trillion plans to address historic U.S. inequality, climate chance and provide four more years of free public education would be completely paid for in 15 years, with tax increases starting to chip away at deficits after 2030.”
First of all, budgets have been projected over 5-, 7-, or 10-year periods. Biden expanded the window to 15 years, because his spending spree runs annual deficits of more than $1 trillion after any one of those periods.
The media have largely repeated Biden’s assertion that the budget will balance in 15 years. But the Biden-Harris administration is still underestimating the price tag of its government-expanding agenda. “Penn-Wharton calculates Biden’s two proposals would spend $5.2 trillion and only raise $3.4 trillion in the first 10 years, putting him far short of his 15-year goal,” The Washington Post reported.
Even then, the Biden administration assumes future administrations will keep his pledges to cut popular spending measures, like the expanded child tax credit. But promises to curb the debt down the road “will only be as fiscally responsible as our future fortitude to actually stop the spending,” said Michael Peterson, chief executive of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation.
Will inflation remain low under Biden’s budget proposal?
The New York Times notes that Biden’s “budget projects that consumer prices will never rise faster than 2.3 percent per year and that the Federal Reserve will only gradually raise interest rates from their rock-bottom levels in the coming years.”
But the Times ignores the fact that inflation has already driven the Consumer Price Index up by almost twice that rate, even before the Democrats’ proposed spending orgy. “Over the last 12 months, the all items index increased 4.2 percent,” the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported this month.
Another measure of consumer prices rose at the highest clip since 1992; the core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) index increased by 3.1% this year. That includes a massive 25% increase in the cost of energy, something unlikely to turn around under Biden’s green energy proposals.
US core PCE inflation came in stronger than expected in April, rising to 3.1%Y/Y (vs 2.9% exp) from 1.9%. pic.twitter.com/6VrOw2Bu4I — James Foster (@JFosterFM) May 28, 2021
One truth:
The media have mostly gotten one fact right: Biden is spending more money, and heaping up more debt, than any president at any time since World War II. “The levels of taxation and spending in Mr. Biden’s plans would expand the federal fiscal footprint to levels rarely seen in the postwar era,” reported Tankersley.
What’s the bottom line?
The Biden administration has mostly succeeded in planting its talking points in the legacy media, with little analysis, perhaps in part because of its release on the Friday before Memorial Day.
“This is the blueprint for your entire plan for the country,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. “It deserves transparency and attention, and trying to hide it right before everybody’s making a mad dash for the beach for the first time in over a year isn’t really the way we should govern.”
It also deserves greater scrutiny from the media on behalf of the taxpayers who will see their family’s income taxed in order to pay for the priorities of inside-the-Beltway politicians.
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A student at Viterbo University in La Crosse, Wisconsin said she had been the victim of racist incidents. On the night of April 18, she reportedly texted a friend to say that a small fire that began in her residence hall must have been targeted at her because it began next to her room.
When police investigated the fire and reviewed security footage, they discovered that it was the same student who set the fire. Victoria Unanka was then arrested for arson but released on a signature bond.
Viterbo president Glena Temple said that the university was still investigating Unanka’s earlier claims of victimhood.
“This is a complex situation that involves a series of concerning incidents,” Temple said, according to the La Crosse Tribune. “We continue to investigate the incidents earlier in the semester and any potential link between them and this fire.”
The La Crosse Fired Department arrived on campus around 2:30 a.m. on April 18, where a fire had been reported at Marian Hall in the second-floor lounge. The fire was easily put out with a fire extinguisher, though the fired department said there was a “fair amount” of smoke damage and that ventilation was required. The department also reported minor damage to a wall and a bit of carpet. The fire was small enough not to trigger the sprinkler system.
Unanka allegedly told police she had been with her friends the night of the fire and returned home around midnight, at which time she made some food and went to the lounge to wash her hands. She said she didn’t go anywhere else in the residence hall before returning to her room. She also told police she didn’t see anything suspicious prior to the fire. Once the alarm went off, she said she and a friend knocked on doors to get other students out of the building.
When police reviewed security footage of the residence hall, however, they noticed inconsistencies in Unanka’s claims. Surveillance footage showed Unanka left her room at about 2:09 a.m. and began checking to see if other people were present. In the next five minutes, Unanaka goes into the lounge area and a bathroom before going back to her room. At 2:14 a.m., smoke could be seen on the camera footage. Unanka then began knocking on residents’ doors and pulled the fire alarm herself.
It was a resident adviser who told police that Unanka texted a friend to say the fire was yet another hate crime against her.
When police noted the inconsistencies between Unanka’s version of events and the security footage, she changed her story and admitted she intended to set the fire. She claimed she quickly decided against the fire and went back to the lounge after she went to the bathroom and attempted to clean up the smoking remnants of old food on the stove. She said the paper towels she used caught fire and she shook them out to try to extinguish the flames. She then tossed them in the garbage can.
She told police she was frustrated that “no one was listening to me anymore,” purportedly about her other claims of being the victim of racist incidents.
Viterbo president Temple told the Tribune that Unanka had left campus.
“We remain concerned about the student’s well-being, and we will continue to work with her and her family,” Temple said. “In addition, we continue to hold listening sessions and expanded student support services to assist all our students during these difficult times.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A report released by the U.N. agency UNICEF (U.N. Children’s Fund) states that while “age verification tools may prevent children from accessing pornography from commercial websites, it is unlikely that they would prevent children from accessing pornography completely,” adding, “There is currently no universal agreement on the nature and the extent of the harm caused to children by viewing content classified as pornography.”
“UNICEF also claims that asking for age-verification to access pornography online may deny children access to what it calls ‘vital sexuality education,’” The Center for Family and Human Rights reported. “It should be noted that critics charge ‘comprehensive sexuality education’ is pornographic and harmful to children.”
The UNICEF report states, “Any restrictions on ICCPR (International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights) rights must be the least intrusive instrument available among those that might achieve the desired result. Accordingly, children should not be age-gated out of any online environment, or have their access to content or aspects of an online service limited, without solid evidence that this is necessary.”
“The term ‘pornography’ has many legal definitions within different jurisdictions, so it is not always clear across the literature that consistent definitions are being used,” the report continues. “Top-ranked digital sexuality education media worldwide accessed by children include websites, apps and YouTube vloggers, most of which are in the English language and based in the US. Some of this content may be classified as ‘pornography’ in certain contexts: if it were age restricted, this could deny children access to vital sexuality education materials.”
Then the report states no consensus has been reached as to the harmful effects of pornography on children: “There are several kinds of risks and harms that have been linked to children’s exposure to pornography, but there is no consensus on the degree to which pornography is harmful to children. Prominent advocates point to research arguing that access to pornography at a young age is linked to poor mental health, sexism and objectification, sexual aggression and other negative outcomes. The evidence suggests that some children appear to be harmed by exposure to some kinds of pornography at least some of the time, but that the nature and extent of that harm vary.”
The report cites a study that looked into the degree to which children were “happy” about watching pornography: “The 2020 EU Kids Online study compared survey findings from 19 countries and found that in most countries, most children who saw sexual images online were neither upset nor happy (ranging from 27 per cent in Switzerland to 72 per cent in Lithuania); between 10 per cent and 4 per cent were fairly or very upset; and between 3 per cent of children (in Estonia) and 39 per cent (in Spain) reported feeling happy after seeing such images.”
Lisa Thompson, vice president and director of the Research Institute at the National Center on Sexual Exploitation, reacted to the UNICEF report, saying, “UNICEF’s report ignores the vast body of research demonstrating the harms of pornography to children. By ignoring the real harms pornography can have, UNICEF is playing roulette with children’s health and safety. … Mainstream pornography contains horrific sexual abuse, rape, incest, racism – all of which children should not consume. UNICEF’s milquetoast assessment of the impacts hardcore pornography on children does nothing to challenge the political narrative that pornography is benign, and as a result, puts children in harm’s way.”Selina Soule, a prominent women’s rights activist who used to be a high school track athlete in Connecticut, praised Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, a Republican, during a press conference on Tuesday for signing a bill into law that aims to preserve fairness in girl’s sports by ensuring that girls do not have to compete against biological males.
Soule told her story about how she missed out on countless opportunities as a track athlete in Connecticut because she and other female athletes consistently lost to two biological males who competed against them.
A transcript and video of Soule’s remarks are featured below:
SELINA SOULE, FORMER HIGH SCHOOL TRACK ATHLETE: You may know my story, but if you don’t, I’d like to share how bad policy in my state of Connecticut has robbed me, my teammates, as well as every other female track athlete in my state the opportunity to compete on a fair and level playing field. I have been competing in track and field since my mom introduced it to me when I was a little girl. Track means everything to me. I would wake up every morning eager to get on the track, waiting to run waiting to jump. I love my sport. I’ve spent countless hours training to shave fractions of a second off of my time, so I could be the best because I race to win. But my chances of being first, of being the best, were shattered.
In 2017, Connecticut began allowing two male athletes who self-identify as girls to compete in girls’ sports. During all four years of high school I was forced to compete against them, even though they were bigger, stronger and faster than me because they were male. In just three years, these two athletes won 15 Women’s Championship titles, and they set 17 new individual meet records, records which we girls had no hope of breaking. I remember what it was like to line up for the race and get into my blocks already knowing the outcome long before the race started. Those two biological males would dominate the field leaving us girls to compete for third place and beyond. No matter how hard we trained and how hard we pushed ourselves, they beat us time and time again. We elite female athletes don’t give up a normal high school experience just from participation trophies, we race to win.
Sports have always had separate rules to ensure fairness. Everyone should have the chance to participate in sports, but they need to compete where it’s most fair. This isn’t about self expression. This is about our right, a woman’s right, to win. I have lost countless opportunities over the past few years. I lost opportunities to compete on World Class tracks and opportunities to win titles. During my junior year, I was denied the chance to compete at the regional New England championships. I missed advancing to the next level of competition in the 55-meter dash by just two spots, two spots that were taken by biological males. It was frustrating, heartbreaking, and demoralizing to be sidelined in my own sport. Female athletes deserve the same opportunity as boys to excel and chase our dreams. Allowing male athletes to compete and girl’s sports shatters those dreams and strips away opportunities that so many of us have spent years working to obtain. We must protect the integrity of women’s sports.
So I decided to take action. Three of my fellow female athletes tonight filed a lawsuit last year with the Alliance Defending Freedom against the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference because girls and women deserve the chance to compete on a fair playing field. After reviewing the Fairness and Women’s Sports Act, all I can say on behalf of all female athletes is thank you, Governor.
As someone who was one of the first to start speaking against this injustice, it is very encouraging that my story has reached people across the country and that many have seen what’s happened in Connecticut and want to take the stand to protect female athletes in their state effort to protect women’s sports so no other young girl has to go through the same pain and heartbreak I had to endure my four years of high school. I am grateful to Florida lawmakers and especially Governor DeSantis for preserving fairness and women’s sports and allowing countless young girls and women the opportunity to succeed in the sport that they love. As a female athlete, I recognize the opportunities for higher competition are limited, including access to college recruitment, scholarship funds, equal access to facilities, coaches, training opportunities, and even opportunities to play professionally, even decades after Title Nine. This bill is about protecting the advances we’ve already made as women in this space and creating a fair opportunity to empower women to aspire and to achieve in the most fair way possible. I only wish the rest of the country would take these obvious steps to ensure fairness and equality for women and girls like me. once again. Thank you, Governor DeSantis.Former and current female inmates from liberal states like California and Washington are speaking out about gender laws which allow biologically male inmates who identify as female to share prison cells with them.
One woman recalled sharing a cell with men who sustained a “full erection,” another noted how female inmates, many victims of past sexual assault, are arming themselves out of fear of victimization from “300 pound” men who “look like Hercules.”
These women spoke to Abigail Shrier, author of “Irreversible Damage: The Transgender Craze Seducing Our Daughters,” a book that highlights liberal gender theory’s effects on young girls. “Irreversible Damage” has been demonized in the mainstream for “transphobia,” as has Shrier, who has repeatedly denounced such labels.
Former inmate Tyrina Griffin told Shrier that “many of the men who are transferring there aren’t even on hormonal medication.”
“They’re getting a full erection,” she told the author. “So you’re locked in this room, 24/7, with a man and there’s nothing you can do about it. If you tell the police you don’t want to live with a man, or you’re afraid or whatever, you’ll get a disciplinary infraction. So you’re basically punished for being scared.”
Another former inmate, Amie Ichikawa, explained that Central California Women’s Facility in Chowchilla does not separate inmates based on severity of crime, due to the nature of women’s facilities being significantly less violent than men’s facilities. So when biologically male inmates are transferred in, they’re mixed with inmates without regard for the nature of their crime.
“We’re all mixed together,” Ichikawa said. “The people who’ve murdered their children are in the same room as the people who’ve stolen boxers from Walmart.”
At Chowchilla, there are eight women housed to a room, “with a sink and toilet inside the cell and only a cowboy door for modesty.”
“How are you going to prevent these people from having sex?” Ichikawa emphasized. “And how do you then decipher what’s sex and what’s rape?”
Griffin told Shrier that such gender policies have made prisons “more of a war zone” (emphasis added):
In Washington state, which has a similar law, one male inmate who transferred into the women’s prison was a serial killer of women. “They might as well go ahead and start dropping the women off at San Quentin or Pelican Bay or one of the hard-core men’s prisons,” Ms. Griffin said. She added that women inside the prison are looking for ways to arm themselves. “They made it into a more of a war zone, to me, because I know women who are like, ‘I refuse to live with a man, and if I have to make me a prison knife to defend myself, then I’m going to do that.’ . . . I mean, you know how strong men are. Imagine one woman trying to defend herself against this big ol’ man, and the men coming in, they are like 6-foot-5, 6-foot-6, 300 pounds. These men look like Hercules compared to these little women. Can you fault the woman for actually trying to defend herself?”
Shrier noted that the former and present inmates she spoke to said “female guards at Chowchilla are as upset as the inmates by the law, recognizing that men are far more violent.”
Noting that most women’s prisons don’t have “gun coverage,” “meaning officers overseeing the general population are armed only with batons and pepper spray,” current female inmate Rachelle Johnson expressed worry for women’s lives.
“They (officers) could get a gun, but they would have to go all the way to the front,” she said. “That would really be extremely too late if something was to really happen.”
Shrier warned that the conditions for women could “go national,” noting of legislation dubbed the “Equality Act” by Democrats (emphasis added):
Crazy California laws occasionally go national. Take SB 132, which took effect in January. It allows transgender-identified male state prison inmates to transfer into women’s prisons based on “individual preference”—no hormones, surgery or time spent living as the opposite sex required. Spokeswoman Terry Thornton of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation says 264 male prisoners have declared a nonmale identity and formally requested transfer to women’s facilities.
If Congress passes the Equality Act—the House already has—incarcerated biological men who identify as female would be entitled to transfer into women’s federal prisons and possibly also state prisons nationwide.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On June 1, the U.S. Embassy to the Vatican in Rome flew the LBGTQ pride flag to celebrate “Pride Month,” prompting backlash online on account of the Vatican and the Roman Catholic Church’s positions on homosexuality.
The U.S. Embassy to the Holy See celebrates #PrideMonth with the Pride flag on display during the month of June. The United States respects the dignity and equality of LGBTQI+ people. LGBTQI+ rights are human rights. pic.twitter.com/Xentlnr16E
The U.S. Embassy’s decision was roundly criticized:
In March, the Vatican asserted that priests could not bless same-sex unions and that any such blessings were invalid. In a Responsum of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the Vatican stated:
In some ecclesial contexts, plans and proposals for blessings of unions of persons of the same sex are being advanced. Such projects are not infrequently motivated by a sincere desire to welcome and accompany homosexual persons, to whom are proposed paths of growth in faith, “so that those who manifest a homosexual orientation can receive the assistance they need to understand and fully carry out God’s will in their lives.” …
Among the liturgical actions of the Church, the sacramentals have a singular importance: “These are sacred signs that resemble the sacraments: they signify effects, particularly of a spiritual kind, which are obtained through the Church’s intercession. By them men are disposed to receive the chief effect of the sacraments, and various occasions of life are sanctified.” The Catechism of the Catholic Church specifies, then, that “sacramentals do not confer the grace of the Holy Spirit in the way that the sacraments do, but by the Church’s prayer, they prepare us to receive grace and dispose us to cooperate with it.”
Blessings belong to the category of the sacramentals, whereby the Church “calls us to praise God, encourages us to implore his protection, and exhorts us to seek his mercy by our holiness of life”[4]. In addition, they “have been established as a kind of imitation of the sacraments, blessings are signs above all of spiritual effects that are achieved through the Church’s intercession.”
Consequently, in order to conform with the nature of sacramentals, when a blessing is invoked on particular human relationships, in addition to the right intention of those who participate, it is necessary that what is blessed be objectively and positively ordered to receive and express grace, according to the designs of God inscribed in creation, and fully revealed by Christ the Lord. Therefore, only those realities which are in themselves ordered to serve those ends are congruent with the essence of the blessing imparted by the Church.
For this reason, it is not licit to impart a blessing on relationships, or partnerships, even stable, that involve sexual activity outside of marriage (i.e., outside the indissoluble union of a man and a woman open in itself to the transmission of life), as is the case of the unions between persons of the same sex. The presence in such relationships of positive elements, which are in themselves to be valued and appreciated, cannot justify these relationships and render them legitimate objects of an ecclesial blessing, since the positive elements exist within the context of a union not ordered to the Creator’s plan.
Furthermore, since blessings on persons are in relationship with the sacraments, the blessing of homosexual unions cannot be considered licit. This is because they would constitute a certain imitation or analogue of the nuptial blessing. invoked on the man and woman united in the sacrament of Matrimony, while in fact “there are absolutely no grounds for considering homosexual unions to be in any way similar or even remotely analogous to God’s plan for marriage and family.”Actress Kate Winslet, who starred in the HBO limited series “Mare of Easttown” that concluded earlier this week, notably pushed back on attempts to make her look more attractive in the show.
The HBO page describes the show:
As her life crumbles around her, a small-town Pennsylvania detective Mare Sheehan (Kate Winslet) investigates a local murder. The series explores the dark side of a close community and provides an authentic examination of how family and past tragedies can define our present.
Winslet discussed the character she played with The New York Times, saying, “that [Winslet] has been bowled over by how audiences have fallen ‘in love with this wildly flawed, messy, broken, fragmented, difficult woman. I loved her marks and her scars and her faults and her flaws and the fact that she has no off switch, no stop button. She just knows ‘Go.’’”
Describing the show, Winslet said, “It’s about mothers protecting their children at all costs, and the lengths that a parent will go to in order to protect their children.” On the topic of the finale’s surprise ending, she added, “Oh God, it’s just unbelievable, it’s heartbreaking.”
Winslet said she is aware that people say, “Oh my God, how can she let herself look so unglamorous?” When Craig Zobel, the director, promised her he would edit out “a bulgy bit of belly” in a sex scene, she told him, “Don’t you dare!”
She also returned the promotional poster for the show twice because it had been touched up too much. “They were like ‘Kate, really, you can’t,’ and I’m like ‘Guys, I know how many lines I have by the side of my eye, please put them all back,’” she said.
According to The Times, Winslet “said she balked when she saw an early cut in which her ordinarily luminous skin looked too good. ‘We tried to light it to make it look not nice,’ she said.”
She added, “Listen, I hope that in playing Mare as a middle-aged woman — I will be 46 in October — I guess that’s why people have connected with this character in the way that they have done because there are clearly no filters. She’s a fully functioning, flawed woman with a body and a face that moves in a way that is synonymous with her age and her life and where she comes from. I think we’re starved of that a bit.”
On the costume design of the show, Winslet said, “Whenever we’d find something unflattering, we’d be jumping up and down like, ‘Yes! We’re wearing this.’” She would even put her clothes in a pile in the trailer after shooting “and they would stay in a rumpled up ball overnight. We were not washing and drying and hanging those clothes. Never.”
They also added more makeup to her eyebrows to reportedly give her face a heavier appearance and kept the sunspots and imperfections. “We’re so used to seeing this stuff airbrushed away,” she said.
Winslet discussed the problems that come from social media and ideal images being so prevalent in society.
“What worries me is that faces are beautiful. Faces that change, that move, are beautiful faces, but we’ve stopped learning how to love those faces because we keep covering them up with filters now because of social media and anyone can photoshop themselves, and airbrush themselves, and so they do,” she said. “In general, I would say I feel for this generation because I don’t see it stopping, I don’t see or feel it changing, and that just makes me sad because I hope that they aren’t missing out on being present in real life and not reaching for unattainable ideals.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Watertown Police Sergeant Jeff Pugliese, the officer known for tackling the Boston marathon bomber to the ground, retired from the force after 41 years.
Pugliese discussed the important role of police work and how much he loved his job. His retirement is a mandatory one, as Massachusetts requires police officers to retire at the end of the month in which they reach 65 years of age.
“I look forward to going to work,” he told WBZ-TV. “It’s exciting and you get to help a lot of people…It’s incredible.”
He said policing is “the finest profession in the world to have.”
“He can’t work anymore as a police officer. It’s mandatory retirement. So it is what it is,” his wife, Connie, said. “It will be great to have him home more often. It’s important that he’s happy.”
Pugliese grew up in Watertown where his father was a Watertown Police detective. He said, “I knew I wanted to do this when I was about 16 years old. I decided I wanted to be a police officer.”
Pugliese enlisted in the United States Army at age 17, entering the service when he was 18 years old. He served as a military police officer and was stationed in Germany where he met his wife. They later moved to Massachusetts together.
Pugliese says that the day he got the call that he would be appointed as a police officer was the most exciting day of his career, per the local outlet. It would be almost 34 years later that he’d become a national hero when he assisted in taking down two terrorists.
The outlet reported that soon after the suspects of the Boston Marathon Bombing “sped into Watertown in a stolen SUV (and after killing MIT Police Officer Sean Collier), Pugliese found himself face-to-face with [one of the brothers].”
“We were just six feet, maybe seven feet apart. The only thing separating us was a four-foot chain link fence. We were exchanging gun fire and his gun, now we know it ran out of ammunition but, at the time we didn’t know if it jammed,” he said. “He stopped. He literally took the gun, looked at me, we made eye contact, and then he threw the gun at me and hit me in the shoulder with it. I holstered up and chased after him and tackled him.”
One of the brothers then raced toward Pugliese and two other law enforcement officers in an SUV. Pugliese pulled the other suspect to save him from getting hit by the car.
“I felt the breeze of that car go by my face. It missed my face by inches,” he said.
The brother in the car ran over his older brother, who was later pronounced dead at the hospital.
“It does have an affect on you,” Pugliese said. “You think how lucky you were to survive it. It’s just very difficult to put into words.”
WBZ-TV reported:
He says policing has changed dramatically over the course of his career. More social work on the job, more domestic violence situations (physical and verbal) and a smaller Watertown PD staff. But what has not changed is Pugliese’s sense of duty, his pride and his sense of connection to the community. He says he will miss driving around and talking with people and the camaraderie at Watertown PD.
“He received a Congressional Badge of Bravery for his heroic work during the Marathon bombing,” said Watertown police Chief Michael Lawn. “He also received the Trooper George Hanna Medal of Honor, which is the highest honor you can receive in Massachusetts in the police field.”
On February 11, 2015, then-Vice President Joe Biden hosted a Medal of Valor ceremony with then-Attorney General Eric Holder to honor several members of law enforcement, including Pugliese.
Pugliese told WCVB, “The best part of being a police officer is getting out there and helping people, saving lives,” adding, “It’s because of all these police officers – not just in Watertown, but everywhere in the world – people sleep soundly in their beds at night because there are police officers willing to sacrifice their lives for them.”
The retirement celebration included a video message from Oscar-winning actor J.K. Simmons, who portrayed Pugliese in the 2016 film “Patriots Day.”
“I’m the only guy in Hollywood good looking enough to portray you on screen,” Simmons said in the video. “Thank you for teaching me how to shoot a gun and teaching me all kinds of things about the ropes of police work.”
Pugliese was asked what advice he would give to younger law enforcement officers. Without hesitating, he answered, “Be proud of the profession. Don’t dishonor the uniform. You’re there to help people, not hurt people.”
“I love this profession. I really do,” he said.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A San Francisco police officer was taken to the hospital last week after being rescued from an attack by a man who was allegedly making racially-motivated threats against Asians.
“The incident took place on Friday,” CBS San Francisco reported. “A law enforcement source says the 911 caller who reported him as a disturbance that day had called the day prior, stating that the suspect said ‘I specialize in killing Asian people.’”
Video of the incident shows the police officer approaching the man — who repeatedly claimed that he did not have any weapons on him — and telling him to turn around and place his hands on his head. It initially appeared as though the man was complying with the officer’s orders, but he quickly became agitated and began attacking the police officer. The man wrestled the female officer to the ground and attacked her. Within just a few moments, several men rushed to the officer’s aid and helped gain control of the situation until multiple police officers arrived on scene to arrest the man.
The man was identified by police as being 33-year-old Gerardo Contreras. ABC7 News reported that documents obtained by the local news station showed that “Contreras has a record of prior arrests, including aggravated assault, elder abuse and assaults on officers in other parts of California.”
1/2: Surveillance video captures man attacking @SFPD officer as she tries to see why he was allegedly ranting at Asian people near Clay & Kearny. Bystanders helped pull him off her until backup arrived. 📹: Asian Dawn. https://t.co/1ytjEWDvDF pic.twitter.com/Y1pmRH3H48 — Henry K. Lee (@henrykleeKTVU) May 30, 2021
“Just like a human being being attacked, and also it’s like a police officer, civil servant, and third it looked like there was a weapon,” Andy Min, who rushed in to help the police officer, said. “I couldn’t tell but I saw it hit the ground, so I didn’t know if it was in control or not, but just felt like something needed to happen.”
Min added, “There was a point where he had tackled her and I was like okay this isn’t going on – or this isn’t going right, and just kind of jumped in.”
Michael Waldorf, who had just finished eating dinner with his family at a nearby restaurant, also rushed in to help.
“He’s a big guy, he was not letting go. He had a death grip on her. And he was not letting go,” Waldorf said. “I saw it as an emergency. She needed our help and she needed it right away.”
The San Francisco Police Officers Association released a statement on social media praising the men for rushing in to help the female police officer.
“We’ve seen a rise in violent attacks by homeless individuals, including attacks on police officers,” the union wrote on Twitter. “We are deeply grateful to these citizens who rushed to our officer’s aide. Our staffing shortage left this officer working alone instead of with a partner.”
Crime in San Francisco has skyrocketed over the last year which has led to two recall campaigns being launched against far-left San Francisco District Attorney Chesa Boudin.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A small business advocacy group sued Major League Baseball on Monday over its decision to pull the 2021 All-Star game out of Atlanta, Georgia.
Job Creators Network sued the MLB, Commissioner Rob Manfred, MLB’s players union, and union executive director Tony Clark in a federal court in New York about two months after Manfred announced that the MLB was boycotting Georgia over election reforms. The MLB’s decision came days after President Joe Biden endorsed the league and other corporations wading into Georgia politics.
“MLB robbed the small businesses of Atlanta – many of them minority-owned – of $100 million, we want the game back where it belongs,” Job Creators Network president and CEO Alfredo Ortiz said in a statement. “This was a knee-jerk, hypocritical, and illegal reaction to misinformation about Georgia’s new voting law which includes Voter-ID. Major League Baseball itself requests ID at will-call ticket windows at Yankee Stadium in New York, Busch Stadium in St. Louis, and at ballparks all across the country.”
“Small businesses in this community had valid contracts relating to the All-Star Game and other events, the result of two years of planning and all that was ripped away by fear and misinformation spewed by political activists. Many states, including Colorado where the game has been moved, have similar or more restrictive election laws,” he continued. “This move essentially tells fans of teams in many other cities that they can never again host the All-Star Game; it’s hypocritical, illegal, and we won’t stand for it.”
Commissioner Manfred announced on April 2 that the MLB would move its 2021 all-star game and draft out of Atlanta following passage of the state’s new voting reforms. The league picked a new host city, Denver, later that month.
“Over the last week, we have engaged in thoughtful conversations with Clubs, former and current players, the Players Association, and The Players Alliance, among others, to listen to their views,” Manfred said, announcing the Georgia boycott. “I have decided that the best way to demonstrate our values as a sport is by relocating this year’s All-Star Game and MLB Draft.”
Georgia stands to lose tens of millions of dollars in lost economic opportunities because of the MLB’s decision. Holly Quinlan, president and CEO of Cobb Travel and Tourism, said that relocating the MLB All-Star game out of Georgia would cost her county about $100 million in revenue from tourism.
The MLB boycott came after a number of prominent Democrats pushed false claims about the Georgia election reforms, such as claiming that the reforms restricted voting access for Georgians. The claim was repeated by Biden, as well as failed Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Abrams.
Georgia Governor Brian Kemp ripped the MLB for pulling out of Georgia during an April interview on Fox News.
“It’s unfortunate that Major League Baseball has caved to the cancel culture, and quite honestly, President Biden and Stacey Abrams and a lot of other people are simply lying about this bill to pressure these organizations,” Kemp said. “This is just a cancel culture, and I’ll tell you, the people at home should be scared because their ballgame is next, their business will be next, their way of life will be next. It is time to stand up and fight this and say, ‘look, we’re not going to take this anymore.’ It’s ridiculous.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Florida Republican Governor Ron DeSantis kicked off the start of pride month by signing a bill into law, the “Fairness in Women’s Sports Act,” that protects female athletes from having to compete against biological males.
“We believe in the state of Florida, of protecting the fairness and the integrity of women’s athletics,” DeSantis said. “And I can tell you this in Florida, you know, girls are going to play girl’s sports and boys are going play boy’s sports, that’s what we’re doing. We’re going to make sure that that’s the reality. So the bill that we’re doing today will ensure fairness for women athletes for years to come in the state of Florida. It says that athletic teams or sports that are designated for females are open to females. And we’re going to go based off biology.”
“The bill defines a student’s biological sex based on the student’s official birth certificate at the time of birth,” DeSantis continued. “And as part of the bill we’re signing today, we’re not only making sure women have opportunities for scholarships and competition at the highest level, we’re also putting in statute ways to actually vindicate the rights of any women athletes who may be discriminated against. So moving forward, any student who’s deprived of an athletic opportunity, as a result of a violation of this law will have the right to civil remedies. Any school or public post secondary institution that suffers direct or indirect harm as a result of a violation of this bill, including by a governmental entity, accrediting organization or athletic association, can also pursue civil remedies. Any student who is subject to retaliation as a result of reporting a violation of this bill can also pursue civil remedies.”
DeSantis played a video at the press conference showing biological males competing against girls in track races at the high school level and winning, which DeSantis said was “blatantly unfair.” Attending the event was Selina Soule, a track athlete from Connecticut who fell one place short of being able to qualify for finals after losing to two biological males.
DeSantis dismissed threats from the NCAA warning against laws that protect girls from having to compete against biological males in sports.
“Some of these organizations say they’re not going to hold events if you do this, just let me say very clearly, in Florida, we’re going to do what’s right, we’ll stand up to corporations, they are not going to dictate the policies in this state,” DeSantis said. “We will stand up to groups like the NCAA, who think that they should be able to dictate the policies in different states.”
Related:
This report has been updated to include additional information.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Piers Morgan, former co-host of Good Morning Britain (GMB), said he may rejoin his old morning show after he resigned in March.
Morgan said in an interview with the U.K.’s The Sun on Friday that bosses at ITV, the television station that puts on GMB, have contacted him to find out whether he would be interested in returning to the show. Morgan did not give a definitive answer as to whether he would return to the show, but he appeared open to the idea.
“They reached out — there have been approaches. Never say never,” Morgan told The Sun.
“I have no doubt I could take the ratings back to where I left them — but the doubt is, would anyone be allowed to do it that way again?” he said. “I was hired to give very strong, honestly held opinions, which I did. But in the end I was asked to apologize for a genuinely held opinion.”
“As the Americans say, they reached out — there have been approaches to test the water in the wake of their obvious ratings issues,” he added. “It makes me sad to see all the hard work we did to beat the BBC in viewing numbers evaporate so fast. It’s their problem to work out … but never say never.”
Morgan laid out what ITV needs to offer to bring him back on the show.
“I would seriously consider [going back] if I could rip it all up, and do it my way. If I could produce it as well as present,” Morgan said. “I always felt slightly hamstrung there; they never let me have the team I wanted to have.”
“When it comes to work, I’m quite tough and ruthless. I always wanted the best people around me, yet felt there was a little too much reliance on me to do my thing all the time,” Piers said. “There are some very good people at GMB, including obviously [GMB co-host Susanna Reid], but they should have some other people come in to really give the show some rocket fuel.”
Piers added that he would boot “a certain weatherman.”
Morgan left the show in March following a blow-up over comments he made regarding Meghan Markle’s claims of racism and mistreatment by the royal family before she and Prince Harry split from the rest of the family and moved to the United States.
In his final appearance on GMB on March 9, Morgan walked off the set after a heated exchange with Alex Beresford, the show’s weatherman. As The Daily Wire reported:
Beresford, who is also biracial, said Morgan has a grudge against Markle. “I understand that you’ve got a personal relationship with Meghan Markle and she cut you off,” he said, according to The Daily Mail. “I understand that you don’t like Meghan Markle, you’ve made it so clear a number of times on this program, a number of times.” “She’s entitled to cut you off if she wants to,” he added. “Has she said anything about you since she cut you off? I don’t think she has. But yet you continue to trash her.” Beresford also defended Markle. “There was bad press around the engagement before the engagement and everything that has followed since has been incredibly damaging, quite clearly to Meghan’s mental health and also to Harry.” Morgan then stormed off the live show, saying, “‘OK, I’m done with this. Sorry. You can trash me mate but not on my own show. See you later.” He came back a short time later and told Beresford that he would stay if they had a debate in a “civilized manner.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Former Democrat President Barack Obama’s administration reportedly spied on U.S. allies in Europe and top European politicians – including German Chancellor Angela Merkel – by using Denmark’s Defense Intelligence Service (FE).
“The findings are the result of a 2015 internal investigation in the Danish Defense Intelligence Service into NSA’s role in the partnership,” Reuters reported. “According to the investigation, which covered the period from 2012 to 2014, the NSA used Danish information cables to spy on senior officials in Sweden, Norway, France and Germany, including former German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier and former German opposition leader Peer Steinbrück.”
The alleged operation – dubbed “Operation Dunhammer” – allowed the NSA to obtain phone calls, texts, and chat messages to and from the official’s telephones.
Some of the reaction from European officials include:
Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg: “It’s unacceptable if countries which have close allied co-operation feel the need to spy on one another.”
French President Emmanuel Macron: “If the information is correct, then that’s unacceptable between allies, and even less so between European allies. We expect complete openness and a clarification of the facts from our Danish and American partners.”
French Minister for European Affairs Clement Beaune: “These potential facts, they are serious, they must be checked.”
Former German opposition leader Peer Steinbrück said it was “grotesque that friendly intelligence services are indeed intercepting and spying on top representatives” of other countries, adding: “politically I consider it a scandal.”
German government spokesman Steffen Seibert: “The federal government has taken note of the report and is in contact with all relevant national and international bodies for clarification. As a matter of principle, and you already know this, I would ask you to understand that the federal government does not openly comment on matters concerning intelligence activities.”
Reports first surfaced that the Obama administration was spying on U.S. allies in 2013 when it was revealed that they had spied on Germany and France. The spying on France appears to have started during the latter years of former President George W. Bush’s administration.
CNN reported:
Revelations that the US National Security Agency (NSA) tapped Merkel’s cellphone emerged in 2013 after former NSA contractor and whistleblower Edward Snowden shared documents with The Guardian showing that a US official had handed the agency 200 phone numbers, including those of world leaders, for the agency to monitor. The report did not name any of the 35 world leaders that were allegedly on in the list. However, few months after the initial reports, the German government publicly said it had information that suggested the US might have monitored Merkel’s cell phone. Germany’s Federal Prosecutor’s Office launched an investigation into the allegation, but dropped it in 2015, saying it had uncovered insufficient evidence to launch a successful prosecution.
“The Danish government can and will not comment on speculation in the media concerning our intelligence services,” Danish Defense Minister Trine Bramsen said. “The position of the Danish government is clear — systematic targeting against our close allied partners is unacceptable. Clearly, that is a well-established principle that Danish authorities adhere to.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Anyone that has paid even scant attention to the headlines over the last five years cannot help but notice that something has gone horribly awry in higher education. Historically, universities have been the marketplace of ideas, where our country’s best and brightest can discuss and debate important questions of science, philosophy, religion, and politics. In contrast, today’s universities are filled with radical (and sometimes violent) activists masquerading as faculty and students bent on canceling anyone who challenges the progressive orthodoxy.
Many times, these radical activists violate university policies, not to mention the constitutional rights of other faculty and students, while attempting to shut down debates on important topics like immigration, abortion, racism, human sexuality, and gender identity. Yet, university administrators — those tasked with enforcing university policies and protecting faculty and students’ constitutional rights — are nowhere to be found.
Why? In short, cowardice. They are more concerned with protecting their positions (along with their inflated salaries and associated perks) than they are about protecting the rights of faculty and students and the university’s role as a marketplace of ideas. I should know. As the director of Alliance Defending Freedom’s Center for Academic Freedom, whose mission is to protect the First Amendment rights of students and faculty, I have a front row seat to witness this cowardice daily.
CAF’s victory achieved last Wednesday — one of more than 430 over the last 15 years — illustrates this perfectly.
In June of 2020, the Florida State University Student Senate removed student Jack Denton as its president simply for sharing his Catholic beliefs in a private group chat with other members of the FSU Catholic Student Union. After one student encouraged others to watch a video link supporting organizations that were receiving “ad revenue” from the video, Jack responded that the ACLU, BlackLivesMatter.com, and Reclaim the Block all support positions inconsistent with the Church’s teaching. Jack merely offered a gentle reminder about some of the political stances these organizations take so that his fellow Catholic students would be aware before supporting them financially.
Three days later, the Senate held a special seven-hour meeting in which more than a hundred students berated Jack. They said he “should never have been allowed to hold this position” because of his “outdated and extreme cult mindset.” They said his beliefs were “vile and wrong.” They said to Jack that he needed to be removed because “you must learn your lesson.” And they said allowing Jack to be a leader “would effectively be enabling bigotry.” Agreeing with the mob’s false claims that Jack was a bigot, racist, and transphobe, the Senate voted to remove Jack as Senate president.
The facts are not in dispute. The Student Senate meeting was recorded. And high-ranking members of FSU administration participated in the meeting. No one disputes that Jack was removed solely because he shared his Catholic beliefs, in a private group chat, with other Catholic students. And no one disputes that Jack’s speech was protected under the First Amendment. As such, the Student Senate’s removal of Jack clearly violated the FSU Student Body statute prohibiting “differential treatment of a student based on . . . religion.” Similarly, his removal also violated FSU’s nondiscrimination policy which plainly prohibits discrimination based on creed or religion. With all this evidence, surely the FSU administration would take immediate steps to correct this injustice, right? Wrong.
Jack immediately appealed his removal to the Student Supreme Court. But the court was prevented from hearing his appeal in a timely manner because the Student Senate refused to appoint the necessary number of justices. Jack sent two separate letters to Amy Hecht, vice president for student affairs, asking her to protect his rights and enforce the university’s policies. Ms. Hecht refused both requests.
As a result, Jack was forced to file a federal lawsuit. Last October, the federal court ruled that Jack was likely to prevail on his claim that the university violated his First Amendment rights by removing him as Senate president and ordered the university to begin paying Jack his salary for that position. Several weeks later, more than four months after Jack filed his appeal, the Student Senate finally appointed enough justices so the Student Supreme Court could hear his case. On Oct. 26, the Student Supreme Court issued an opinion finding that the Student Senate’s removal violated Jack’s First Amendment rights and FSU’s nondiscrimination policies. Further, the Supreme Court ordered that Jack be immediately reinstated as Student Senate president.
The Student Supreme Court’s decision was immediately appealed to Vice President Hecht. Surely now, after both a federal court and the FSU Student Supreme Court have ruled that Jack’s removal violated FSU policies and the First Amendment, Hecht would do the right thing and swiftly affirm the Supreme Court’s decision, right? Wrong.
Instead, Hecht intentionally delayed issuing a ruling for more than three weeks until the Senate term had expired. She then issued a brief letter declining to rule on the merits because the issue was now moot.
There can only be one explanation for this: cowardice.
Contrast FSU administrators’ response (or rather, lack thereof) with the courage and wisdom shown by the members of the FSU Student Supreme Court (consisting of second- and third-year FSU law students) in their decision reinstating Jack to his rightful role as Senate president:
“The haste in which the Senate took this action, combined with the severity of the action taken against him—his loss of employment and leadership within Student Government—sends a message to all other members of Student Body: That students with religious beliefs, at least the ones shared by Plaintiff, are not fit to serve in Student Government. To uphold this sentiment within the Student Government Association at FSU, this Court would be encouraging the suppression of religious ideas within our community’s marketplace of ideas and discouraging students who hold such beliefs from participating in that community.”
Indeed.
If universities are to be restored to their rightful role as marketplaces of ideas, university administrators must stop cowering behind their desks and, instead, courageously stand up to the cancel-culture mob seeking to destroy higher education.
Tyson Langhofer is senior counsel and director of the Center for Academic Freedom at Alliance Defending Freedom (@Alliance Defends), which represented Jack Denton in Denton v. Hecht.
The views expressed in this opinion piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.China’s state-run media agency, China Daily, has spent millions in the past six months to publish articles in prominent American media outlets such as Time magazine, the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune, and Foreign Policy.
The Washington Free Beacon’s Chuck Ross reported that Time has a $700,000 advertising campaign deal with China Daily, and has published articles defending the Chinese government and critical of the American government – particularly the Trump administration while President Donald Trump was still in office. While Time discloses that China Daily pays the magazine to publish its articles, the disclosure does not include information about China Daily being affiliated with the Chinese government.
The partnership between China Daily and Time began last year. So far, Time has published 75 online articles from the Chinese outlet, the first “an article championing the Chinese Communist Party’s recent five-year plan. The article blamed the United States for “escalating” tensions with China by threatening to ban WeChat and TikTok, two phone apps that U.S. officials believe have ties to Chinese intelligence,” Ross reported.
Another article published by Time came one week after the Trump administration placed China’s largest drone manufacturer, DJI, on a blacklist due to concerns the company would use its drone to spy on American citizens. There have also been reports that China uses DJI drones to spy on Uyghur Muslims, a minority population targeted by the Chinese government. Millions of Uyghurs currently sit in concentration camps, and are subjected to regular abuse and torture. The Time article about DJI touted its drones and suggested they could be used for agricultural work, “helping farmers improve efficiency and increase the use of intelligent agricultural equipment.”
“The last article published by Time is a China Daily story from April 26 in which retired diplomat Chas Freeman marvels at China’s economic progress in the 50 years since he worked as Richard Nixon’s interpreter during the president’s 1972 visit. Freeman is affiliated with the isolationist Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, a controversial think tank whose scholars have defended China from claims that it is committing genocide against Uyghurs,” Ross wrote. “The article is a prime example of the kind of content that China Daily places in American media outlets. Several articles quote prominent Americans calling for closer cooperation between Washington and Beijing, praising China, or criticizing the U.S. government.”
As Ross reported, other major news outlets, including the Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, and The Washington Post, all ended their partnerships with China Daily last year. When the Journal was partnering with the Chinese outlet, it disclosed its connections to the Chinese government.
The partnerships are another example of Chinese media’s attempts to control the American government. As The Daily Wire’s Ryan Saavedra reported, another state-run Chinese media outlet, the Global Times, reportedly warned that China should prepare for nuclear war with the United States. The warning came after President Joe Biden asked the U.S. Intelligence community to increase efforts to investigate the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, which started in China.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Kyrie Irving wanted his return to Boston to be focused on “strictly basketball.” It most certainly was not.
A Boston Celtics fan was arrested and banned from TD Garden arena for life after throwing a water bottle at Irving’s head as the Brooklyn Nets star was exiting the arena following the Nets game four victory on Sunday.
A fan appears to throw a water bottle at Kyrie as he heads into the locker room after the Nets-Celtics game. pic.twitter.com/SCGaWyStht — Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) May 31, 2021
Nets players and members of the crowd were able to identify the man — 21-year-old Cole Buckley — who has been charged with one count of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon.
Irving left Boston for Brooklyn after the 2019 season, enraging Celtics fans who felt spurned by his decision after he pledged he’d be back in Celtic green just one year earlier.
Games three and four in Boston were Irving’s first games at TD Garden — with fans in attendance — since leaving for the Nets in free agency. Before game three, Irving said he hoped he wasn’t the target of any “subtle racism” from the fans, sparking a conversation around Boston’s alleged history of racism when it comes to athletes.
After the game, Irving continued to elude to racism being a factor in the way visiting players are treated by fans in Boston.
“You’re seeing a lot of old ways come up,” Irving said. “It has been that way in history in terms of entertainment, performers and sports for a long period of time and just underlying racism and just treating people like they’re in a human zoo. Throwing stuff at people, saying things. There is a certain point where it gets to be too much.”
The incident comes after multiple instances of fans coming into contact with NBA players over the past week. Russell Westbrook of the Washington Wizards had popcorn dumped on his head after game two of their series against the Philadelphia 76ers, and Trae Young of the Atlanta Hawks had a New York Knicks fan spit at him during game two of their series at Madison Square Garden.
“Fans got to grow up at some point,” Kevin Durant said after Sunday’s game. “I know that being in the house for a year and a half with the pandemic got a lot of people on edge, got a lot of people stressed out, but when you come to these games, you have to realize these men are human.”
“We are not animals; we are not in the circus. You coming to the game is not all about you as a fan. So, have some respect for the game. Have some respect for the human beings, and have some respect for yourself. Your mother wouldn’t be proud of you throwing water bottles at basketball players or spitting on players or tossing popcorn. So, grow the f*** up, and enjoy the game. It’s bigger than you.”
Though the fan who threw the water bottle was clearly in the wrong and deserves to be punished accordingly, Irving was not completely innocent in the ordeal.
He was caught stomping on the Celtics mid-court logo after the game, no doubt enraging a fanbase that was already upset after the blowout loss.
Kyrie Irving stomped on the head of the Celtics logo after the Nets beat them in what could be the final game at their arena this season pic.twitter.com/Zoa0EUs7dx — Jomboy Media (@JomboyMedia) May 31, 2021
“We just gonna act like we didn’t see that,” Hall of Famer and former Celtic Kevin Garnett wrote on Instagram. “TF is going on…. You can’t do that. That’s not coo on any level .. All of us need to be better frfr.”
“Real bulls***,” former Celtic Glen “Big Baby” Davis commented. “Like I said you step on lucky you step on everybody that played for that team. Keep the s*** basketball before somebody get hurt in real life.”
The Celtics and Nets continue their series Tuesday night in game five of their first round matchup.
Joe Morgan is the Sports Reporter for The Daily Wire. Most recently, Morgan covered the Clippers, Lakers and the NBA for Sporting News. Send your sports questions to sports@dailywire.com.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Actor Chris Pratt honored fallen military men and women on Memorial Day with a moving Instagram post that captioned photos of family members and fellow service members grieving those who paid the ultimate sacrifice for freedom.
Pratt accompanied the photos with a lengthy caption telling followers to please show “support for our fallen” and asking people not to “b**** and moan about America” in the comment section, adding, “never forget your right to free expression is paid for in blood.”
“I saw these images on @timkennedymma feed,” the “Parks And Recreation” actor wrote. “Please, look at each one. Pause, give them your consideration.”
“America’s exceptional armed forces have altered the course of the world for the better. From the Union Army defeating slave owning confederates, to the Greatest Generation and her Allies vanquishing the Nazis or our special operators hunting down the perpetrators of 9/11,” he continued. “We count the names of each fallen solider lest they be countless. They are the good guys. They run to the sound of gunfire. They know pain and suffering we never will. They have given us the most free and decent society planet earth has ever seen. We run the risk of losing that decency when we fail to instill gratitude in the minds of our youth or the perspective of what it actually means to be free- should they never learn of the selfless sacrifice of our armed service members in the face of oppressive evil. So join me in showing support for our fallen. Take a quiet moment to really consider the sacrifice.”
“And if you use the comments section on posts like this to b**** and moan about America please understand there are countries in the world where criticizing your government will get you killed or imprisoned,” he emphasized. “Criticism is a right and necessity in amending the flawed systems of man. So by all means, let your voice be heard. But never forget your right to free expression is paid for in blood. May God give their souls rest, and may they live in our memories this weekend and always.”
Pratt’s Christianity and ambiguous but generally pro-America political views have been an issue in the left-wing media for years. In October 2020, for example, they took issue with Pratt breaking ranks with fellow “Avengers” actors and opting out of a pro-Joe Biden event called the “Voters Assemble: The Cast of The Avengers Unite for Democracy.”
Pratt has also been ridiculed for allegedly radiating “homophobic white Christian supremacist energy,” among other left-wing attacks, The Daily Wire highlighted:
“Pratt is open about his Christian faith but has not been overtly political in his public statements. Pratt told Men’s Fitness in 2017, ‘I don’t feel represented by either side. I really feel there’s common ground out there that’s missed because we focus on the things that separate us.’ He was also photographed wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with the Gadsden flag, which was popular with many conservative groups.”
Moreover, back in 2019, the actor found himself defending his church after actress Ellen Page said it was “infamously anti –LBGTQ.”
“It has recently been suggested that I belong to a church which ‘hates a certain group of people’ and is ‘infamously anti –LGBTQ.’ Nothing could be further from the truth,” he posted via social media. “I go to a church that opens their doors to absolutely everyone.”
“My faith is important to me but no church defines me or my life and I am not spokesman for any church or any group of people,” the “Avengers” star said. “My values define who I am. We need less hate in this world, not more. I am a man who believes that everyone is entitled to love who they want free from the judgment of their fellow man. … Jesus said, ‘I give you a new command, love one another.’ This is what guides me in my life. He is a God of Love, Acceptance and Forgiveness. Hate has no place in my or this world.”
View this post on Instagram A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt)
Related: Chris Pratt Criticized For Skipping Joe Biden Fundraiser; Robert Downey Jr. Comes To His Defense
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Lawmakers in Nevada on Monday passed a bill in an effort to displace New Hampshire and become the first state to weigh in on the 2024 presidential primary races.
New Hampshire has long been the first state to hold nominating primaries, with Iowa holding its caucuses a week later (but in 2020, Iowa went first followed by New Hampshire). But one advocate of Nevada taking over the first slot said those states aren’t reflective of the nation as a whole.
“New Hampshire and Iowa are not really reflections of our entire country. Presidential candidates should look at Nevada as the example of what they should be doing and who they should be talking to,” said Emily Persaud-Zamora, director of Silver State Voices, a Nevada voting advocacy group, according to The Associated Press.
The bill must be approved by Democratic Governor Steve Sisolak to become law, but national political parties would also have to approve of the move to change the 2024 primary and caucus calendar.
Sisolak has not said if he’ll sign the bill. “After the 2020 Presidential Caucus in Nevada, Governor Sisolak was clear that while Nevada Democrats did a phenomenal job of making the caucuses as accessible as possible, the caucus process itself has fundamental challenges that create obstacles for too many Nevadans to participate and make their voices heard,” his spokeswoman Meghin Delaney said in a statement.
She added that the governor “believes Nevada is perfectly positioned as a diverse and representative state to be first in the nation’s presidential nominating process.”
Democratic lawmakers back the move. “It’s time for Nevada to take its rightful place, not just first in the West but in the nation, as a diverse state, a state with diverse issues,” said Nevada Assembly Speaker Jason Frierson, a Democrat who sponsored the legislation.
The AP said the push to become the first state “follows a behind-the-scenes lobbying campaign led by former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada.”
“Reid and other Nevada Democrats have seized on dissatisfaction in the party about the nominating process that gained steam in 2020. They’re arguing to replace party-run caucuses with state-run primary elections, which are considered easier to participate in than the in-person neighborhood caucus meetings,” said the wire service.
The party is expected to undergo a months-long review of its past nominating process and isn’t expected to set its nominating calendar until at least next year. If the party doesn’t sign off on the changes, it could force Nevada to amend its law or risk having its delegates dropped from the Democratic National Convention. The Republican Party, which has most recently kept Nevada’s caucuses as its fourth contest, has not backed the change. Nevada Republican Party Chairman Michael McDonald opposes the change, warning that the state acting unilaterally could leave both his party and the Nevada Democrats without national delegates in 2024 and less influence on the presidential nominating process.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.President Joe Biden is expected to unveil a $100 billion effort to combat “systemic racism” during a visit to Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Tuesday to mark the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre, one of the worst incidents of racially motivated violence in United States history.
Biden will be the first sitting president to honor the anniversary of the incident, which left hundreds of African Americans killed or injured and razed one of the most successful black neighborhoods in the country at the time to the ground. He will also use the event, planned for Tuesday afternoon, to announce major changes to federal housing policy, and a massive new “inter-agency effort” at combatting systemic racism in the housing industry and beyond.
“The White House announced a slate of policies meant to promote racial equity ahead of the trip,” USA Today reported Tuesday.
“That includes a new inter-agency effort meant to combat housing discrimination, as well as new directives that will increase federal contracting with small, minority-owned businesses by $100 billion over the next five years.”
The grants will be on top of millions of taxpayer dollars, earmarked to address systemic racism, allocated through the Biden administration’s COVID-19 response bills, and “include a $10 billion initiative targeting community revitalization efforts, projects retrofitting transit systems to redress the dislocation of minority communities, incentives to end exclusionary zoning and a new tax credit to develop low and affordable housing,” USA Today noted.
CNBC added Tuesday that Biden plans to “announce an increase in the share of federal contracts for small, disadvantaged businesses; the reversal of two Trump-era housing rules; and the launch of an initiative to address inequality in home appraisals.”
The White House released an official statement outlining the plan.
On Tuesday, Biden will announce:
The creation of an interagency initiative to address inequity in home appraisals, led by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge. “Homes and majority Black neighborhoods are often valued at tens of thousands of dollars less than comparable homes in similar, majority white communities,” the White House said. “This effort will seek to utilize, very quickly, the many levers at the federal government’s disposal … to root out discrimination in the appraisal and home buying process.”
HUD will issue two Fair Housing Act rules that reverse efforts by HUD during the Trump administration to weaken protections afforded by the law. “In both cases, HUD is moving to return to traditional interpretations of the Fair Housing Act,” the White House said Monday. The new rules are intended to “clear the way for HUD to more vigorously enforce the Fair Housing Act,” it said.
The administration will announce a goal of increasing the share of federal contracts awarded to small, disadvantaged businesses by 50% over the next five years. Currently, around 10% of federal contracts go to SDBs annually, totaling around $50 billion. An increase of 50% by 2026 would mean an additional $100 billion in federal contracts awarded to SDBs in this five year period, officials said.
The plan does not include any official movement on the issue of “racial equity” in the economy, despite requests from several high-profile progressive activist groups. It also does not address the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, which the White House appears to have quietly dropped, according to reports from last month. Instead, the Biden administration is reportedly hoping for a more comprehensive compromise bill.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Some people seem to want to see racism everywhere. Construction sites are particular targets these days, since looped ropes and cables can be common.
The latest example comes from Central Connecticut State University, where a construction company has been building a new parking structure, The College Fix reported. For Memorial Day, the company used one of the construction cranes to raise an American Flag, which required a steel cable loop. Someone saw this loop and insisted it was a noose, reporting such to campus officials.
As always, instead of trying to educate the university community on not being so quick to assume ill intent, campus officials apologized that someone could be so sensitive or so wanting to be a victim.
“Early this evening, we received a complaint about a possible noose found hanging from a construction site on the CCSU campus. Campus Police … investigated and found that it was not a noose but a standard steel cable loop hanging from a crane,” CCSU president Zulma Toro wrote in a campus-wide email Saturday night.
“A construction crew working on campus hung an American flag from the crane’s cable to recognize Memorial Day,” Toro added.
The Fix reported that Toro explained in her email about steel cable loops being used by cranes, but also mentioned recent reports of “nooses” found at an Amazon construction site. Toro then condemned construction sites for using loops of cable or rope.
“Quite frankly, I think it is reckless and tone deaf behavior,” she wrote. “We have been in contact with the construction company and demanded that the cable be lowered tonight. We have a team on site tonight monitoring the situation.”
The Fix reported, however, that the loop and flag were still up on Sunday morning, because, as interim Vice President for Student Affairs John Tully told Fox 61, the university couldn’t find someone who could safely operate the crane at short notice to take the loop down. Like Toro, Tully also sided with those claiming to be victimized by construction equipment.
“The perception of its noose-like appearance is concerning. We were speaking to people last night who certainly felt some pain, we feel that pain, our president has issued a statement expressing her concern about this and we are working diligently to get it down,” Tully told the outlet.
The fact that this is not a noose but a common construction item was ignored. Fox 61 also interviewed Ronald Davis, president of the New Britain NAACP, who insisted it would be seen as a noose by black people.
“Regardless of what someone else says about that, what I see, as a black man? That’s a noose. Period. No ifs, ands, or buts about it. Take it down,” he said.
A College Fix reader noted that an image of the cable loop that has offended at least one person actually shows there are multiple steel cable loops hanging from the crane, but that the only one mentioned by the offended is the one connected to the American Flag.
“I guess they noticed only the one holding the flag, which means that it’s the flag that triggers them,” the reader told the outlet.
This is simply the latest noose claim that has fallen apart under basic scrutiny. As The Daily Wire previously reported, two black Penn State University professors claimed they saw a noose in a tree behind their house. It turned out to be a length of rope from a swing set.
The most famous recent example involved NASCAR driver Bubba Wallace, whose team claimed to find a noose hanging in their garage stall at the Talladega Superspeedway. The “noose” turned out to be a garage pull that had been hanging for more than a year and was similar to garage pulls in numerous other stalls.
The Daily Wire has also reported on numerous other incidents where a noose turned out to be no such thing. In June 2020, a noose was found in a Harlem park. The New York Police Department investigated the incident and determined it was just some rope left over from construction scaffolding and had been hanging in the park unnoticed for six months. Of course, the determination came after protests and numerous officials, including Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D-NY), chimed in on the alleged hate crime.
In July 2019, the University of Michigan investigated a “noose” that had been found at a shared employee table at the university hospital. That investigation concluded that the “noose” wasn’t actually a noose but a “Uni Knot,” used for fishing. Someone had been practicing and merely left the rope on the table before chaos ensued.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Far-left activists working inside major U.S. tech companies are waging an anti-Semitic Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) campaign against Israel in response to Israel defending itself from Palestinian terrorist attacks last month.
The push for the anti-Semitic BDS campaign comes after Palestinian terrorist organizations — Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad — launched more than 4,300 rockets at Israel last month with approximately 680 falling inside of Gaza. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) responded by launching targeted strikes against the terror groups, resulting in the deaths of more than 200 terrorists, as well as the destruction of more than 60 miles of underground tunnels they were using.
The activist tech workers “are strategizing with outside activists over the best way to agitate against cloud contracts with the Israeli government,” Politico reported. “A May 21 webinar for activists interested in demilitarization in the Palestinian territories, which BDS organized, included a breakout room devoted entirely to tech worker activism on the issue.”
An employee at Google who was part of organizing the activist’s efforts said that what is happening is “a broader reckoning within the technology industry about its involvement in Israel.”
The report noted that Microsoft “divested” from an Israeli firm after activists within the company pressured them to do so last year. The report said that activists inside Google and Amazon were trying to pressure their companies into canceling major contracts with Israel’s government. Amazon is currently in talks to set up three data centers in Israel while Google is setting up a new Google Cloud region in Israel.
“A major target of pro-Palestinian activists’ ire is a $1.2 billion cloud contract called Project Nimbus, which the Israeli government awarded to Amazon and Google last month,” the report added. “Though public information about the contract is scarce, Israel has said the companies will help provide cloud services to government agencies and the Israeli Defense Force. Shahar Bracha, the acting CEO of a technology-focused unit within the Israeli prime minister’s office, lauded Amazon’s cloud-computing unit and Google as ‘the Rolls-Royce and the Maserati of the cloud world.'”
Maria Jeffrey Reynolds, a spokesperson for Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX), said in a statement that the activists inside the tech companies were “a bunch of privileged people in Silicon Valley” who were pushing their companies “to participate in the anti-Israel BDS movement.”
The U.S. government late last year recognized “the global anti-Israel BDS campaign as anti-Semitic,” then-Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. “We want to stand with all other nations that recognize that the BDS movement for the cancer that it is and we’re committed to combatting it.”
NGO Monitor responded to the announcement by saying in a statement:
The equating of BDS with antisemitism echoes the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s (IHRA) working definition of antisemitism, which defines attempts to deny “the Jewish people their right to self-determination” and apply “double standards” as antisemitic. Combating antisemitism and ending the exploitation of universal human rights are both issues of great importance, and the need to address these objectives should transcend political divisions. In this context, NGO Monitor has called for governments, as well as NGOs, to adopt the IHRA working definition of antisemitism.
“The founding goals of the BDS movement, and many of the strategies employed in BDS campaigns, are fundamentally anti-Semitic,” said Jonathan Greenblatt, ADL CEO. “The vast and swift support for these bipartisan resolutions from across the board critically demonstrates the true priority for Americans is working toward a peaceful two-state solution with Israel as a Jewish state.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A group of parents and grandparents in Rocky River, Ohio recently gave a series of stunning speeches to their school board, rebuking the infiltration of Critical Race Theory (CRT) and gender theory in schools. “What these ideologies are really creating is a nation of angry mob justice protestors, instead of successful producers,” said one defiant resident in a statement that summarized many of his peers’ sentiments. “You in whom we’ve put our trust to instruct our children in math science, and history are instead indoctrinating our children with radical political ideology and rhetoric adopted from Karl Marx,” said another resident. “These programs are aimed at turning our students against their parents.”
As the video of the school board meeting (below) shows, Larry, resident of 27 years, called out the sneaky nature of radical propaganda in schools. Speaking about a proposed diversity program called “JEDI,” Larry states:
The twisted language of CRT is propagated throughout the JEDI program. The only difference is the slight change in the name and language to disguise it and make it less offensive in order to gain acceptance by parents and the community at large… Equity sounds non-threatening and is easily confused with the principle of equality. Equality, as enshrined in our Declaration of Independence, is explicitly rejected by CRT backers that regard it as a cover for white supremacy and oppression. Equity promotes equality of outcome, not equality of opportunity. Equity strives to segregate individuals by identity, particularly race, rather than ability, desire, and achievement… What these ideologies are really creating is a nation of angry mob justice protestors, instead of successful producers.
Anne Robbins, a 40-year Rocky River resident, gave the board an impressively succinct lesson about Critical Race Theory:
To be clear, the words diversity and inclusion do not necessarily mean what people think they mean. Everyone would agree that diversity and inclusion are valuable and important, but the devil is in the details. If you tell our 9th graders at Rocky River High School, that society is made of two separate groups, a dominant and subordinate group, and the dominant group controls the subordinate group because of unearned privilege, you are teaching Critical Race Theory. Furthermore, if you identify the dominant group as the white middle class, you are teaching Critical Race Theory. And I want to stop with the sugar coated buzzwords, and call them “oppressors” and “victims.” If you teach 9th graders that every person, including themselves, has to be understood in terms of a special social group, you’re teaching them to see the world through a lens of group identity, be it race, socioeconomic status, gender, or ethnicity. Group-think creates conflict that pits one group of students against another. It’s a poisonous worldview. It denies the individual the content of their character and the merit of their work. We are the freest country in the world. Everyone, blacks, latinos, women, LGBTQ, all minorities have equal opportunity under the law to achieve their dreams. Why don’t we teach that and inspire our students to that? Let’s teach students to overcome obstacles…Please stop teaching the dangerous politics of group identity, the parents and taxpayers of Rocky River see right through it.
Another woman (not named in the video), pushed back against gender theory:
Rocky River schools have failed to specifically inform you of the gender ideology and sexual constructs in the curriculum currently being taught to your children…Instead they use manipulation, coercion, and public shaming exercises as means to indoctrinate our children with their personal belief system. This is unacceptable…The diversity instructors have been silencing your parental voice, driving a wedge between you and your child, all in the deceptive name of diversity and inclusion. Your role as an influential presence in your child’s life has not been honored or revered. Scientific data is ignored. You are ignored. Do the research. Look at the study from Brown University entitled Parent reports of adolescents and young adults perceived to show signs of rapid onset gender dysphoria. Read the findings of Abigail Shrier who holds degrees from Columbia University, Oxford, and Yale Law School. There is a tremendous game of deception going on in our classrooms and our children are losing their innocence, their ability to trust parents, and the freedom of being a child.
Finally, Emily Lyman, a Rocky River resident of 53 years, called out the Marxist origins of the “diversity” and “inclusion” ideology:
I’ve seen lots of changes in our time, but nothing is great to me or more shocking than to learn that our young people are being corrupted by the Marxist curriculum in our schools. I call it Marxism because the very people who promote these programs are self proclaimed Marxists and Communists, and they’re determined to replace our democratic republic. You in whom we’ve put our trust to instruct our children in math science, and history are instead indoctrinating our children with radical political ideology and rhetoric adopted from Karl Marx. These programs are aimed at turning our students against their parents. They’re being taught to be ashamed of the United States, and that it’s good to kneel during the national anthem. This works against the students self-worth and identity by undermining their confidence. They can’t speak their mind against such ideas for fear of retribution. Transgenderism and sexuality are not subjects for the classroom or library story hours, and mathematics is not racist, as some have claimed. In continuing this effort by the radical propaganda to dumb down our society in favor of emotional learning, you are helping to extinguish individual freedoms. And I say shame on you for not taking a stand against this Communist agenda.
These three citizens are far from alone. As I reported earlier this week, parents in the nearby Beachwood, Ohio district had similarly successful showing, as have parents in Virginia and dozens of other states. The movement has inspired bipartisan groups, including FAIR, as well as widespread backlash among parents in both public and private schools.
Are parents speaking up at your school board? Contact me at ghowe@dailywire.com or on IG @georgiamaehowe
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.After Texas Democrats stalked off the floor of the Texas House chamber on Sunday night in order to break quorum and prevent the Texas GOP from passing Senate Bill 7, the GOP voting rights bill, Texas Republican Governor Greg Abbott fired back that he would veto the state legislature’s budget, thus preventing the members from getting paid.
“I will veto Article 10 of the budget passed by the legislature,” Abbott tweeted. “Article 10 funds the legislative branch. No pay for those who abandon their responsibilities. Stay tuned.”
I will veto Article 10 of the budget passed by the legislature. Article 10 funds the legislative branch. No pay for those who abandon their responsibilities. Stay tuned. — Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) May 31, 2021
Abbott, who has called for a special legislative session, followed by tweeting, “The last time a stunt like this happened was… …Wendy Davis. We all know how that story ended.”
The last time a stunt like this happened was…
…Wendy Davis. We all know how that story ended.https://t.co/R95Ey7rhRA — Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) June 1, 2021
Abbott was referring to June 2013, when then-Texas state senator Wendy Davis held a filibuster for 13 hours to block Senate Bill 5, a strong pro-life measure. With the help of the filibuster, which pushed the bill past the midnight deadline for the end of the legislative session, the bill was delayed, but when a second session was convened, the bill was passed anyway. The filibuster triggered the Democrats to choose Davis to run for governor in 2014, but she was crushed by Abbott, 59% to 38%.
Abbott stated Monday, “I expect legislators to have worked out their differences prior to arriving back at the Capitol so that they can hit the ground running to pass legislation related to these emergency items and other priority legislation. During the special session, we will continue to advance policies that put the people of Texas first,” as KXXV reported.
Abbott added, “This session we passed legislation to: secure our border, support our police, expand 2A rights, defend religious liberty, protect life. It was one of the most conservative sessions our state has ever seen. But, there’s more we must do to ensure a brighter future for Texas. Election integrity & bail reform were must-pass emergency items. I expect legislators to work out their differences before special session.”
But, there's more we must do to ensure a brighter future for Texas. Election integrity & bail reform were must-pass emergency items. I expect legislators to work out their differences before special session. pic.twitter.com/iycA6Mvy3C — Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) May 31, 2021
Among the changes that Senate Bill 7 would implement are stricter mail-in voting requirements and the barring of drive-thru voting.
Republican state Rep. Briscoe Cain, who carried the bill in the House, stated, “I am disappointed that some members decided to break quorum. We all know what that meant. I understand why they were doing it, but we all took an oath to Texans that we would be here to do our jobs.”
Republican Sen. Bryan Hughes told KLTV, “Last night, some of our Democratic colleagues in the house left. We all took an oath to be here and to be here and cast these votes and represent our constituents, win or lose. I’ve won some; I’ve lost some, but we stay here and we fight it out. And so we were disappointed to see them do that. And so, the governor’s calling us back and he’s doing the right thing. Election integrity, accessibility, security, making sure our elections are working right; it’s fundamental to our democracy, and we’re not gonna let national headlines or even half-truths from the White House keep us from doing the right thing.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) says businesses can require that their employees be vaccinated against COVID-19 without violating federal law.
But in the new updated guidance released on Friday, the EEOC said employers must make “reasonable accommodations” for employees who don’t get vaccinated because of a religious beliefs, pregnancy or a disability. The agency also said that other federal laws, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and state and local laws may play a factor in what businesses can do.
“Federal EEO laws do not prevent an employer from requiring all employees physically entering the workplace to be vaccinated for COVID-19, so long as employers comply with the reasonable accommodation provisions of the ADA and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other EEO considerations. Other laws, not in EEOC’s jurisdiction, may place additional restrictions on employers. From an EEO perspective, employers should keep in mind that because some individuals or demographic groups may face greater barriers to receiving a COVID-19 vaccination than others, some employees may be more likely to be negatively impacted by a vaccination requirement,” the guidance says.
“The updated technical assistance released today addresses frequently asked questions concerning vaccinations in the employment context,” EEOC Chair Charlotte A. Burrows said in a statement. “The EEOC will continue to clarify and update our COVID-19 technical assistance to ensure that we are providing the public with clear, easy to understand, and helpful information.”
The EEOC also said businesses can offer incentives to employees to get vaccinated “as long as the incentives are not coercive.”
“Because vaccinations require employees to answer pre-vaccination disability-related screening questions, a very large incentive could make employees feel pressured to disclose protected medical information,” the guidance says.
The new guidance comes as employees at a Texas hospital filed a suit over the facility’s mandate that they get vaccinated against COVID-19. Houston Methodist Hospital, which manages eight hospitals, gave employees until June 7 to get the vaccine or they could be suspended or fired, the lawsuit claims. So 117 unvaccinated employees banded together and filed suit.
“Methodist Hospital is forcing its employees to be human ‘guinea pigs’ as a condition for continued employment,” the complaint states, according to The Washington Post.
The lawsuit noted that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not fully approved the vaccines, instead issuing only emergency use authorization. They allege that the hospital is “illegally requiring its employees to be injected with an experimental vaccine as a condition of employment.”
The complaint also cites the Nuremberg Code, which “bans forced medical experimentations, again in effect arguing that the vaccine is experimental and potentially unsafe,” Fox News reported.
Attorney Jared Woodfill said the hospital is just trying to make money. “To promote its business and increase profits at the expense of other health care providers and their employees’ health, defendants advertise to the public that they ‘require all employees and employed physicians to get a COVID-19 vaccine,’” Woodfill told ABC News.
“This, as a matter of fact, is a gene modification medical experiment on human beings, performed without informed consent. It is a severe and blatant violation of the Nuremberg Code and the public policy of the state of Texas,” he said.
“Studies show that COVID-19 vaccines are effective at keeping you from getting COVID-19,” the CDC states in its current guidance on the vaccines. “Getting a COVID-19 vaccine will also help keep you from getting seriously ill even if you do get COVID-19.” Excerpt from the guidance below:
COVID-19 vaccines teach our immune systems how to recognize and fight the virus that causes COVID-19. It typically takes 2 weeks after vaccination for the body to build protection (immunity) against the virus that causes COVID-19. That means it is possible a person could still get COVID-19 before or just after vaccination and then get sick because the vaccine did not have enough time to provide protection. People are considered fully vaccinated 2 weeks after their second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine, or 2 weeks after the single-dose Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine. … Although COVID-19 vaccines are effective at keeping you from getting sick, scientists are still learning how well vaccines prevent you from spreading the virus that causes COVID-19 to others, even if you do not have symptoms. Early data show that vaccines help keep people with no symptoms from spreading COVID-19, but we are learning more as more people get vaccinated.
Joseph Curl covered the White House for a dozen years and ran the Drudge Report for four years. He can be reached at josephcurl@dailywire.com and on Twitter at @JosephCurl.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Naomi Osaka, the world No. 2 tennis player, has withdrawn from the French Open and announced she will step back from tennis after a controversy erupted when she skipped a post-match press conference.
Osaka, who won her opening match in the tournament on Sunday, also said she has suffered “long bouts of depression” since winning the U.S. Open in 2018.
The 23-year-old was fined $15,000 for refusing to attend the press conference and was warned she will face further consequences if she did so again. Under the rules, Osaka must still meet with the media for post-match press conferences upon request, reports The Associated Press.
In a statement on social media after her withdrawal, she said: “I think now the best thing for the tournament, the other players and my well-being is that I withdraw so that everyone can get back to focusing on the tennis going on in Paris.”
“I never wanted to be a distraction and I accept that my timing was not ideal and my message could have been clearer,” she continued. “More importantly, I would never trivialize mental health or use the term lightly. The truth is that I have suffered long bouts of depression since the U.S. Open in 2018 and I have had a really hard time coping with that. Anyone that knows me knows I’m introverted, and anyone that has seen me at the tournaments will notice that I’m often wearing headphones as that helps dull my social anxiety.”
“Though the tennis press has always been kind to me (and I wanna apologize especially to all the cool journalists who I may have hurt), I am not a natural public speaker and get huge waves of anxiety before I speak to the world’s media,” Osaka said.
“So here in Paris I was already feeling vulnerable and anxious so I thought it was better to exercise self-care and skip the press conferences. I announced it pre-emptively because I do feel like the rules are quite outdated in parts and I wanted to highlight that. I’m gonna take some time away from the court now, but when the time is right I really want to work with the tour to discuss ways we can make things better for the players, press and fans.”
Osaka took to Twitter shortly after she skipped the press conference to say she sees the press conferences, which have to be attended by the winner and loser of a match, as “kicking a person while they’re down.”
“We’re often sat there and asked questions that we’ve been asked multiple times before or asked questions that bring doubt into our minds and I’m just not going to subject myself to people that doubt me. I’ve watched many clips of athletes breaking down after a loss in the press room and I know you have as well. I believe that whole situation is kicking a person while they’re down and I don’t understand the reasoning behind it,” Osaka said.
“Me not doing press is nothing personal to the tournament and a couple journalists have interviewed me since I was young so I have a friendly relationship with most of them. However, if the organizations think that they can just keep saying, ‘do press or you’re gonna be fined,’ and continue to ignore the mental health of athletes that are the centerpiece of their cooperation then I just gotta laugh,” she said.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR) says “all of the evidence points towards those labs in Wuhan” as the source of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. Cotton also said that if China continues to try to cover up the origins of the virus, “it’s reasonable for the American people to draw the conclusion that China is covering up an accident in those labs.”
“I think all of the evidence points towards those labs in Wuhan, and if we find out that that’s the origins of this virus, then China really needs to pay,” Cotton said Monday on Fox News’ “Fox & Friends.”
“They haven’t paid enough yet for unleashing this plague on the world. I don’t think that China’s going to reveal what happened in those labs anytime soon. I think they’re going to continue to try to cover it up, and if that’s the case, I think it’s reasonable for the American people to draw the conclusion that China is covering up an accident in those labs,” he said.
Experts agree that the pandemic originated in Wuhan, but social media outlets like Facebook and others have, until recently, censored posts that say the virus originated in a lab. In the last few weeks, though, an increasing number of reports have presented the case that the virus may have originated in the Wuhan facility, and even members of President Joe Biden’s cabinet are demanding answers.
The Wall Street Journal last week reported that three researchers from the Wuhan Institute were hospitalized in November 2019 with symptoms consistent with COVID-19, according to a previously undisclosed U.S. intelligence report.
“The details of the reporting go beyond a State Department fact sheet, issued during the final days of the Trump administration, which said that several researchers at the lab, a center for the study of coronaviruses and other pathogens, became sick in autumn 2019 ‘with symptoms consistent with both Covid-19 and common seasonal illness,’” The Journal reported. “The disclosure of the number of researchers, the timing of their illnesses and their hospital visits come on the eve of a meeting of the World Health Organization’s decision-making body, which is expected to discuss the next phase of an investigation into Covid-19’s origins.”
With Republicans on Capitol Hill demanding more information about where the virus originated, Dr. Anthony Fauci — who has repeatedly declared it came from a bat — appeared to walk back his earlier suggestion that the virus moved from animals to humans naturally.
A top Biden cabinet member last week demanded that the World Health Organization (WHO) launch a more “transparent” investigation into the origins of COVID-19 as Republican lawmakers seek answers and top scientists admit the virus could have come from a Chinese lab.
Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra on Tuesday said in an address to the World Health Assembly, a conference organized by the WHO, that independent experts worldwide must be allowed to “fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak.”
Joseph Curl covered the White House for a dozen years and ran the Drudge Report for four years. He can be reached at josephcurl@dailywire.com and on Twitter at @JosephCurl.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Speaking with Fox News’ Jeanine Pirro on Saturday, Sen. Rand Paul expressed concern that U.S. funding may still be used by the Chinese communist regime to research and develop biological weapons.
“I’m very worried that this stuff still goes on and that the U.S. government’s been funding it,” Paul told Pirro.
The Senator then proceeded to discuss “gain-of-function” research, which involves studying methods to increase a microorganism’s transmissibility or virulence.
“Gain-of-function is basically when you have an animal virus that normally just infects animals, and you somehow mutate it or force it to evolve so it can affect humans. So it’s making it more transmissible to humans, and oftentimes making it more dangerous or deadly in humans,” Paul said. “I’ll give you an example. In 2004, there was a virus, a coronavirus called SARS. It killed a bunch of people. It had a 15 percent mortality.”
“In the Wuhan lab, they were studying this SARS virus, and they were putting new proteins on it to make it more infectious to humans,” Paul continued. “That’s gain-of-function. That’s dangerous. And that may be how this virus started. And so, I’m very worried that this stuff still goes on, and that the U.S. government is funding it.”
Last week, it was reported that the Biden State Department “ended an inquiry into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic that was investigating whether the virus stemmed from a leak out of the Wuhan Institute of Virology,” according to Fox News.
On this subject, Pirro asked why the Biden administration would decide to “stop the investigation into the origins of the Wuhan virus,” especially given China’s efforts to prevent transparency regarding the initial outbreak and the virus’ origins.
“I think there’s been a sea-change in the last two or three weeks on this. A year ago, anybody who mentioned the possibility that this virus came out of the Wuhan lab were dismissed as crazy right-wing cooks, conspiracy theorists, etc,” Paul said. “But now you have even MSNBC coming around. You have the left starting to wonder about it. When I introduced my amendment to say we should quit funding this research in China, I ended up getting every Democrat on board.”
“So I think they either know information, or they suspect that this information is gonna get stronger and stronger, that this came from the lab,” Paul continued.
“We’ve got a lot of evidence point to this lab now,” Paul added, later.
Pirro then asked the Senator why “gain-of-function” research is even carried out.
“They say they’re doing it so that they can study these viruses that jump from animals to humans. The problem is that they are creating something that’s novel; they are creating something that doesn’t exist in nature,” Paul responded. “We’re creating Frankenstein super-viruses that, if they leak out of the lab, accidentally or on purpose, could devastate the world. The SARS virus is fifteen times more deadly. If that one gets out, and we enhance its ability to be transmitted, that could kill 50, 100 million people.”
“This shouldn’t be a partisan issue,” Paul noted. “This should be debated.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A man in eastern China has reportedly contracted what is believed to be the first human case of H10N3 bird flu, though the Chinese government claimed that the “risk of large-scale spread is low.”
“The 41-year-old man in Jiangsu province, northwest of Shanghai, was hospitalized April 28 and is in stable condition, the National Health Commission said on its website,” according to The Associated Press. “No human case of H10N3 has been reported elsewhere, the commission said.”
“This infection is an accidental cross-species transmission,” the statement from the Chinese Communist Party’s National Health Commission said. “The risk of large-scale transmission is low.” The NHC also added that the virus strain is a less severe strain of the virus in poultry.
“The man was stable and ready to be discharged from hospital,” reported Reuters. “Medical observation of his close contacts had not found any other cases.”
According to Filip Claes, regional laboratory coordinator of the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases at the Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific, H10N3 is “not a very common virus.”
Reuters also added that, “There have been no significant numbers of human infections with bird flu since the H7N9 strain killed around 300 people during 2016-2017.”
One form of bird flu that is particularly impactful is the highly pathogenic influenza A virus subtype H5N1, which has killed millions of poultry throughout Africa, Asia, and Europe. According to some reports, the mortality rate for humans who contract H5N1 is 60%, and the first known transmission of this strain to a human occurred in Hong Kong in 1997. There were 18 human cases, with six confirmed deaths.
News of the first human case of H10N3 in China comes as the communist regime is already under scrutiny for its role in the outbreak and spread of COVID-19.
On Saturday, Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) explained to Fox News’ Jeanine Pirro that he was “very worried” that U.S. government funding was still being used by the Chinese communist regime to research and develop biological weapons.
“I’m very worried that this stuff still goes on and that the U.S. government’s been funding it,” Paul told Pirro.
“We’re creating Frankenstein super-viruses that, if they leak out of the lab, accidentally or on purpose, could devastate the world. The SARS virus is 15 times more deadly. If that one gets out, and we enhance its ability to be transmitted, that could kill 50, 100 million people,” said Paul. “This shouldn’t be a partisan issue. This should be debated.”
As The Daily Wire reported, former CIA director and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo claimed that “the Wuhan Institute of Virology is ‘still up and running’ — the same lab from which the virus that causes COVID-19 may have originated according to the Biden administration, which is now demanding an investigation from lawmakers,”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Following a May 21 summit between President Joe Biden and South Korean President Moon Jae-In, during which Biden and Moon agreed to end restrictions on South Korean missile programs, North Korea accused the U.S. of hostility and creating an “acute and instable situation.”
“It’s North Korea’s first response to the May 21 summit between the leaders of the United States and South Korea, during which the U.S. ended decades-long restrictions that capped South Korea’s missile development and allowed its ally to develop weapons with unlimited ranges,” reported the Associated Press.
“The accusation of U.S. policy being hostile to North Korea matters because it said it won’t return to talks and would enlarge its nuclear arsenal as long as U.S. hostility persists. But the latest statement was still attributed to an individual commentator, not a government body, suggesting North Korea may still want to leave room for potential diplomacy with the Biden administration.”
According to Kim Myong Chol, who is an unofficial government spokesman described by North Korea’s state news agency as an “international affairs critic,” “The termination step is a stark reminder of the U.S. hostile policy toward [North Korea] and its shameful double-dealing,” and that “It is engrossed in confrontation despite its lip-service to dialogue.”
“The U.S. is mistaken, however. It is a serious blunder for it to pressurize [North Korea] by creating asymmetric imbalance in and around the Korean Peninsula as this may lead to the acute and instable situation on the Korean Peninsula now technically at war,” he said.
“North Korea’s target is the United States, not South Korea’s military, and it will counter the States on ‘the principle of strength for strength,’ Kim said, according to Reuters, before describing Moon’s welcoming of the termination as “disgusting” and “indecent.”
“Now that the U.S. and the South Korean authorities made clear their ambition of aggression, they are left with no reasons whatsoever to fault the DPRK bolstering its capabilities for self-defense,” Kim added.
On May 21, the United States and South Korea released a joint statement, which began, “Over seventy years ago, the alliance between the United States and the Republic of Korea was forged on the battlefield, as we stood shoulder-to-shoulder in war. Bonded in common sacrifice, our partnership has helped to keep the peace in the decades since, allowing both of our countries and our peoples to thrive. The linchpin for stability and prosperity, our alliance has continued to evolve as the world around us has changed. Now, as the regional security environment in the Indo-Pacific grows more complex, and existential issues, from the COVID-19 pandemic to the threat of climate change, reshape the globe, we recommit ourselves to an ironclad alliance.”
“The two sides reaffirm that close coordination on all matters related to global nonproliferation and safe, secure, and safeguarded uses of nuclear technology remain key characteristics of the alliance, and the United States recognizes the ROK’s global role in promoting nonproliferation efforts. Following consultations with the United States, the ROK announces the termination of its Revised Missile Guidelines, and the Presidents acknowledged the decision,” the statement added, before emphasizing a “shared commitment to the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula” and intent “to address the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK’s) nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A top Russian official warned on Monday that President Joe Biden and the United States should prepare to be sent “uncomfortable” signals from Moscow in the coming days ahead of the scheduled summit between the U.S. and Russia.
The remarks came after Biden said on Sunday that he would press Putin on the issue of human rights, saying he would be “making it clear [the U.S.] will not stand by and let [Putin] abuse those rights.”
Sergei Ryabkov, Russia’s deputy foreign minister, said, “The Americans must assume that a number of signals from Moscow … will be uncomfortable for them, including in the coming days.”
Ryabkov’s comments come at the same time that Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said on Monday that Russia would be forming 20 new military units in the western part of the nation to counter what he claimed was a growing threat from NATO.
The Associated Press reports:
Sergei Shoigu made the announcement at a meeting with top military officials. He pointed to a growing number of flights by U.S. strategic bombers near Russia’s borders, deployments of NATO warships and increasingly frequent and major drills by alliance forces.
“The actions of our Western colleagues are destroying the world’s security system and force us to take adequate countermeasures,” Shoigu said. “Around 20 military formations and units will be formed in the Western Military District by the end of the year.”
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg responded to the remarks by Shoigu by saying that “NATO is a defensive alliance” that exists to “protect and defend our allies.”
“What you see is a pattern of Russian behavior, where Russia over the last years have invested heavily in new modern military capabilities from conventional to nuclear weapon systems,” Stoltenberg said. “But not only that but Russia has been willing to use military force against neighbors — in Georgia, in Ukraine,” he said, noting that Russia has increased its military presence in areas near Europe.
“This is one of the main reasons why NATO, in the last years, have increased readiness of our forces and also why we have deployed battletroops to the eastern part of our alliance,” he added.
The remarks out of Russia come after the editor of a top Chinese state-run newspaper recently warned that China needed to be prepared for nuclear war against the United States after Biden announced that he ordered the U.S. Intelligence Community to redouble their efforts in investigating the origins of the coronavirus pandemic.
“Given the intensifying US strategic containment of China, I would like to remind once again that we have many urgent tasks, but one of the most important is to keep rapidly increasing the number of nuclear warheads and strategic missiles like the Dongfeng 41 with extremely long-range and high survival capabilities,” Global Times editor Hu Xijin wrote in a post translated by Chinese human rights activist Jennifer Zeng. “This is the cornerstone of China’s strategic resilience against the United States.”
“We must be prepared for a high-intensity showdown between the US and China, at which point a large number of DF-41 and JL-2 and JL-3 will be the backbone of our strategic will. Our nuclear missiles must be so numerous that the US elite will tremble at the thought of military confrontation with China at that time,” Hu continued. “On such a basis, we can calmly and actively manage our differences with the US and avoid all kinds of gunfire. As US hostility toward China continues to burn, we need to use our strength and the unbearable risks they would face if they took the risk to force them to remain calm.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The editor of China’s state-run Global Times has reportedly warned that communist China needs to prepare for nuclear war with the United States after President Joe Biden ordered the U.S. Intelligence community to redouble their efforts in investigating the origins of the coronavirus pandemic.
Australian journalist James Morrow wrote on Monday that propagandist Hu Xijin made the remarks on Chinese social media “just after” Biden gave the order to the U.S. Intelligence Community to investigate the pandemic’s origins. The order specifically referred to China multiple times.
“Given the intensifying US strategic containment of China, I would like to remind once again that we have many urgent tasks, but one of the most important is to keep rapidly increasing the number of nuclear warheads and strategic missiles like the Dongfeng 41 with extremely long-range and high survival capabilities,” Hu wrote in a post translated by Chinese human rights activist Jennifer Zeng. “This is the cornerstone of China’s strategic resilience against the United States.”
“We must be prepared for a high-intensity showdown between the US and China, at which point a large number of DF-41 and JL-2 and JL-3 will be the backbone of our strategic will. Our nuclear missiles must be so numerous that the US elite will tremble at the thought of military confrontation with China at that time,” Hu continued. “On such a basis, we can calmly and actively manage our differences with the US and avoid all kinds of gunfire. As US hostility toward China continues to burn, we need to use our strength and the unbearable risks they would face if they took the risk to force them to remain calm.”
Hu Xijin, editor of China’s Global Times – the same guy who called Australia “gum on China’s shoe” – now says China must be ready for nuclear war with the US after Covid investigation call. https://t.co/LE5lEqSDX3 — James Morrow (@pwafork) June 1, 2021
The Global Times is known for being a jingoistic publication that often makes more extreme statements than the Chinese Communist Party. Quartz reports:
That’s not exactly a mistake, the paper’s longtime editor says. The Global Times often reflects what party officials are actually thinking, but can’t come out and say, editor-in-chief Hu Xijin explained during a long interview with Quartz in his drabBeijing office in the People’s Daily compound. As a former army officer and current party member, Hu said, he often hangs out with officials from the foreign ministry and the security department, and they share the same sentiments and values that his paper publishes. “They can’t speak willfully, but I can,” he said.
STRATCOM Commander Adm. Charles Richard warned in February that the U.S. Military needed to change its approach when it comes to using nuclear weapons or else the U.S. is likely to “prepare for the conflict we prefer, instead of one we are likely to face.”
“There is a real possibility that a regional crisis with Russia or China could escalate quickly to a conflict involving nuclear weapons, if they perceived a conventional loss would threaten the regime or state,” Richard wrote. “Consequently, the U.S. military must shift its principal assumption from ‘nuclear employment is not possible’ to ‘nuclear employment is a very real possibility,’ and act to meet and deter that reality. We cannot approach nuclear deterrence the same way. It must be tailored and evolved for the dynamic environment we face.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Speaking at the 153rd National Memorial Day Observance at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia, President Joe Biden used the event to claim that democracy is under attack, that “democracy” is the “soul of America,” and that diversity has always been an “incredible strength” when it comes to the armed forces.
“You know, America has been forged in the battle and the fires of war. Our freedom and the freedom of innumerable others has been secured by young men and women who answered the call of history and gave everything in the service of an idea: the idea of America,” Biden said. “It’s the greatest idea in the long history of humankind. An idea that we’re all created equal in the image of Almighty God. That we’re all entitled to dignity, as my father would say, and respect, decency, and honor. Love of neighbor. They’re not empty words, but the vital, beating heart of our nation.”
“And that democracy must be defended at all costs, for democracy makes all this possible. Democracy — that’s the soul of America, and I believe it’s a soul worth fighting for, and so do you; a soul worth dying for. Heroes who lie in eternal peace in this beautiful place, this sacred place, they believed that too,” Biden claimed.
The president then continued to argue that America has experienced a “perennial battle” between “our worst instincts” which “we’ve seen of late,” and that such a battle is characterized as “greed” against “generosity.”
Biden then claimed that “The Americans of Lexington and Concord, of New Orleans, Gettysburg, the Argonne, Iwo Jima and Normandy, Korea and Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq, and thousands of places in between weren’t fighting for dictators,” but were “fighting for democracy.”
“They weren’t fighting to exclude or to enslave; they were fighting to build and broaden and liberate. They weren’t fighting for self; they were fighting for the soul of the nation, for liberty and simple fair play — simple fair play and decency,” the president said.
Biden then shifted to use the sacrifice of American service men and women as a political platform, and presented democracy as “more than a form of government.”
“[Democracy is] a way of being; it’s a way of seeing the world,” Biden said, before describing democracy in an arguably collectivist context.
“The lives of billions, from antiquity to our own hour, have been shaped by the battle between aspirations of the many and the greed of the few. Between people’s right to self-determination and the self-seeking of the dictator. Between dreams of democracy and appetites for autocracy, which we’re seeing around the world,” Biden said. “Our troops have fought this battle on fields around the world, but also the battle of our time. And the mission falls to each of us, each and every day. Democracy itself is in peril, here at home and around the world.”
“What we do now — what we do now, how we honor the memory of the fallen, will determine whether or not democracy will long endure. We all take it for granted. We think we learned in school. You have to — every generation has to fight for it,” Biden continued. “But, look, it’s the biggest question: Whether a system that prizes the individual, that bends towards liberty, that gives everybody a chance at prosperity — whether that system can and will prevail against powerful forces that wish it harm.”
After again claiming that “the struggle for the soul of America itself” is part of the fight for democracy, Biden then made claims about both the electoral system and the media.
“Folks, you all know it: Democracy thrives when the infrastructure of democracy is strong; when people have the right to vote freely and fairly and conveniently; when a free and independent press pursues the truth, founded on facts, not propaganda; when the rule of law applies equally and fairly to every citizen, regardless of where they come from or what they look like,” Biden said.
Biden then concluded by claiming that “empathy is the fuel of democracy.”
“Let me say that again: Empathy — empathy is the fuel of democracy, a willingness to see each other — not as enemies, neighbors. Even when we disagree, to understand what the other is going through,” Biden argued.
Biden also made a comment regarding the diversity of the armed forces, saying “Americans of all backgrounds, races, creeds, gender identities, sexual orientations, have long spilled their blood to defend our democracy,” and that “The diversity of our country and our armed services is and always has been an incredible strength.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.COVID-19 variants will now be named after the Greek alphabet to reduce confusion among the general population and to avoid potentially stigmatizing regions of the world from which they emerge, the World Health Organization announced Monday.
The new system will cover the several variants of concern as well as any variants of interest. The variant of concern from Britain, also called B.1.1.7 by scientists, will now receive the WHO designation of “alpha.” The variant from South Africa, B.1.351., has been designated “beta,” the variant from Brazil, also called P.1 by scientists, has been designated “gamma,” and the variant from India, B.1.617.2, has been designated “delta.”
“No country should be stigmatized for detecting and reporting variants,” said Maria Van Kerkhov, the WHO’s technical lead for COVID-19 said Monday, reports Axios.
The World Health Organization website, similarly, says scientists settled on the naming system in a search for “easy-to-pronounce and non-stigmatising labels” for variants.
“The established nomenclature systems for naming and tracking SARS-CoV-2 genetic lineages by GISAID, Nextstrain and Pango are currently and will remain in use by scientists and in scientific research,” reads the SARS-CoV-2 variant website at the WHO. “To assist with public discussions of variants, WHO convened a group of scientists from the WHO Virus Evolution Working Group, the WHO COVID-19 reference laboratory network, representatives from GISAID, Nextstrain, Pango and additional experts in virological, microbial nomenclature and communication from several countries and agencies to consider easy-to-pronounce and non-stigmatising labels for VOI and VOC. At the present time, this expert group convened by WHO has recommended using labeled using letters of the Greek Alphabet, i.e., Alpha, Beta, Gamma, which will be easier and more practical to discussed by non-scientific audiences.”
The World Health Organization has also listed six COVID-19 variants of interest, stemming from multiple countries, with the letters epsilon, zeta, eta, theta, iota, and kappa.
According to Stat News, a health and medicine news website, scientists debated several different options for the new naming system, including mashing together two-syllable names or three-syllable names, but those didn’t work because they kept accidentally creating words that already exist. They also ruled out using names of Greek gods and goddesses and ruled out using numbers because it would be just as confusing.
Greek alphabet letters are used commonly in sciences, but they also found themselves in the news often with the most recent hurricane season, which relied on Greek letters after the pre-selected hurricane names were exhausted before the 2020 season was over.
But the World Meteorological Association has since retired the Greek Alphabet system.
Meteorologists pointed to several problems with continuing to use the Greek alphabet for naming storms. These included “confusion with some Greek alphabet names when they are translated into other languages used within the Region,” and the similar-sounding nature of some of the letters, which can hamper crisis communication. Perhaps above all, however, was that WMO was forced to retire the names of two Greek alphabet named hurricanes — Eta and Iota — leaving the Greek alphabet two letters short.
The World Health Organization, on the other hand, plans to simply use another naming series for COVID-19 variants once they use up the 24 letters in the Greek alphabet.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Senator Kirsten Gillibrand called on Democrats Sunday to push forward with President Joe Biden’s partisan infrastructure package without gathering Republican support, calling it a “misstep” to wait on Republicans any longer.
“I think the American people elected us to solve the problem of COVID, to rebuild the economy, rebuilding the infrastructure, and I think it’s the moment to act. I think we need a bold solution that does both the hard infrastructure — of roads, bridges, high-speed rail, rural internet — but also the softer infrastructure, the human infrastructure of paid family leave, affordable day-care, making sure our kids are back to school so that all parents can get back to work,” said the New York junior senator.
Gillibrand, a former Democratic presidential candidate, refused to answer CNN host Jake Tapper’s question Sunday when he asked whether she believed Republicans have been negotiating an infrastructure deal in bad faith. She responded: “To me, it means we are about to miss the moment that we have to answer the need of this country.”
“People need government to work for them, and so we have to answer that moment with bold reforms. And I think waiting any longer for Republicans to do the right thing is a misstep. I would go forward,” she added.
“I don’t think there’s necessarily good will behind all negotiations,” says Democratic Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand when asked about negotiating with the GOP on infrastructure. “I think waiting any longer for Republicans to do the right thing is a misstep. I would go forward” #CNNSOTU pic.twitter.com/LjBQNMWp9c — State of the Union (@CNNSotu) May 30, 2021
Gillibrand is one of many Democrats who have expressed frustration with Republicans’ refusal to go along with a massive infrastructure spending plan — particularly as Democrats continue to play loosely with the definition of infrastructure.
The White House has proposed a $1.7 trillion infrastructure bill; a group of Republican senators have countered with a $928 billion plan. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki thanked the senators for the counter-offer last week but also took issue with other areas, such as the lack of new spending for building rail systems, repairing transit systems, and for so-called green infrastructure.
Another major sticking point, suggested Psaki, was that most of the money for the Republican proposal was coming from non-new spending. In fact, the plan would create about a quarter of a billion dollars in new spending, far lower than Democrats want.
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg said Sunday that the White House wants a “clear direction” as to where the infrastructure talks will lead by June 7, suggesting that the Biden administration may want to move on without Republican support, reports The Associated Press.
Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), a lead negotiator on the Republican side, said Sunday that she believes a deal can be reached.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Rep. Tom Malinowski (D-NJ) told CNN on Monday that holding the upcoming 2022 Winter Olympics in China was “in some ways worse than” holding the 1936 Olympics in Nazi Germany.
“Look, I just don’t think it’s appropriate to hold the Olympics in a country that’s committing a genocide,” Malinowski said. “That’s, you know, this is in some ways worse than 1936. In that respect, and what our bill does, it doesn’t force the athletes to boycott. I don’t want them to lose this experience.”
He added, “But it would put pressure on the U.S. corporate sponsors of the game by saying that they can’t contract with the U.S. government if they sponsor these games.”
WATCH:
TRANSCRIPT:
JIM ACOSTA, CNN HOST: Almost 600,000 Americans have died from the coronavirus and lawmakers want answers about the origins of this pandemic. And joining me now to talk about this is Democratic Representative Tom Malinowski of New Jersey. He’s on the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security committees. Congressman, thanks so much for joining me. Your colleague and the top Republican on the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Mike McCaul, told my colleague, Jake Tapper, this weekend, this, let’s listen.
[BEGIN VIDEO]
REP. MIKE MCCAUL (R-TX): I do think it’s more likely than not, it emerged out of the lab, most likely accidentally, for several reasons. This is the worst cover up in human history that we see resulting in 3.5 million deaths, creating economic devastation around the globe.
[END VIDEO]
ACOSTA: What do you think, Congressman, do you agree with that? And is the Biden administration taking this seriously enough, do you think?
REP. TOM MALINOWSKI (D-NJ): I think they are and look, we’ve been briefed by the Intelligence Community and right now, to be honest, there are two highly plausible explanations, either it was transferred from animals in a market or there was an accidental lab leak, our intelligence community doesn’t have a conclusion. They don’t know for sure. And we may never know. But whether it was a lab leak or not, we do know that the Chinese government was covering this up because they have blocked the World Health Organization and every other independent body from going in and investigating this. I think that the Biden administration is doing the right thing by expediting a review of the intelligence because we do have to try our best to figure this out if we’re going to prevent future pandemics.
ACOSTA: And you want to put some pressure on China, you recently co sponsored a bill that would ban the federal government contracting with businesses sponsoring the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Your co-sponsor, Rep. Mike Waltz (R-FL), Congressman Mike Waltz, cites the quote, ‘cover up of the COVID-19 pandemic’ as one reason for the ban. How does this bill go beyond the work of the intelligence community in trying to uncover what happened?
MALINOWKSI: Well, I think these are, these are two separate things. And just another word on the COVID issue, I want to hold China accountable because there’s no question whatever the origins there, there was a cover up. But what China is hiding, again, are the origins of COVID, not the fact of COVID, which was known to us from a very, very early point last year. I mean, it wasn’t China after all that called this a hoax, or that said that, you know, we should take hydroxychloroquine or that it would go away by the summer. So we need to know the facts to prevent future pandemics, but we shouldn’t use this investigation as a way of absolving ourselves of responsibility for what happened in our country. And on the Olympics. Look, I just don’t think it’s appropriate to hold the Olympics in a country that’s committing a genocide. That’s, you know, this is in some ways worse than 1936. In that respect, and what our bill does, it doesn’t force the athletes to boycott. I don’t want them to lose this experience. But it would put pressure on the U.S. corporate sponsors of the game by saying that they can’t contract with the U.S. government if they sponsor these games.
ACOSTA: And former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said on CBS on Sunday, quote, ‘leaks, lab leaks happen all the time. And often the Chinese government is so opaque, it is up to journalists to find out the truth.’ What mechanisms should the international community put in place so we don’t see another pandemic on this scale?
MALINOWKSI: Well this is why we need to have the answers as best we can as to how this happened in the first place. If it was animal to human transmission, that suggests a certain strategy going forward to prevent the next one. If it was a lab leak it suggests a different strategy. So, you know, I do think we have to put as much pressure as possible on China to cooperate with an international investigation. I think there should be consequences if they don’t. Regardless, we need to do more to ensure that the critical supply chains for dealing with infectious disease pandemics are within the United States, that we’re not dependent on China or any other country. That in and of itself, would be punitive.Human rights activists across the world were shocked, Saturday, when Syria was selected to serve on the board of the World Health Organization despite President Bashar Assad’s record of human rights abuses, including unleashing deadly bombing raids on his own citizens.
The decision sparked protests in Syria’s independent regions, where health care workers are targeted by Assad’s government.
“Dozens of medical workers in rebel-held northwest Syria on Monday protested a decision to grant President Bashar Assad s government a seat on the executive board of the World Health Organization They said Assad is responsible for bombing hospitals and clinics across the war-ravaged country,” reported The Independent.
“The decision to give Syria a seat came a decade into the country’s devastating civil war that has left untold numbers of civilians — including many health care workers — dead and injured,” the outlet added.
The change to the WHO’s executive board came during a “little-noticed session” of the group’s assembly on Saturday. “Syria was among 12 WHO member states that were chosen to appoint new members for the 34-member board in an assembly vote that faced no debate or opposition,” according to The Independent.
Syria will serve on the body’s executive board beginning Wednesday, where it will become a key decision-maker for the international health organization, which is slated to take up the issue of whether to further investigate the Chinese government over allegations that the COVID-19 virus “escaped” from a virus research laboratory in Wuhan, where the global COVID-19 pandemic was thought to originate.
The WHO previously sent a team to investigate the origins of the COVID-19 virus. According to a report from the BBC, however, that team told the global health body that China refused to turn over key data necessary to understand how the pandemic was able to take root so quickly. China would not give investigators any raw patient data from Wuhan’s affected, and researchers “only received a summary” of critical data points.
Syria has its own troubles. A report from Physicians For Human Rights noted that “over the past 10 years in Syria, there were 598 attacks on health care facilities and personnel, 350 health care facilities were targeted, and 930 medical professionals were killed,” leaving their commitment to global health in question.
“Syria’s election is a travesty,” Hillel Neuer, the executive director of UN Watch, said in a statement. “It’s like appointing a pyromaniac to be the town fire chief.”
“Syria’s Assad regime, with the help of its allies Russia and Iran, systematically bombs hospitals and clinics, killing doctors, nurses, and others as they care for the sick and injured,” he continued. “Health professionals have also been arrested, disappeared, imprisoned, tortured, and executed. Electing this murderous regime to govern the world’s top health body is an insult to Assad’s millions of victims, and sends a terrible message.”
Syria’s own civil defense workers, known as “white hats,” also condemned the decision.
“We are appalled by the WHO’s decision to reward the Assad regime for destroying hospitals and killing doctors and refusing to provide medical assistance to Syrians by electing it as a member of its executive board,” the group said.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Republican lawmakers in Oklahoma have successfully renamed a stretch of highway after former President Donald Trump.
Under a new bill, signed by Republican Governor Kevin Stitt, Oklahoma will rename a 20-mile stretch of highway, between Boise City and the border with Texas, after the forty-fifth president. The highway, part of U.S. route 287, runs north to south through the Oklahoma panhandle.
According to The Oklahoman, lawmakers managed to rename the highway stretch after Trump with relative ease, having included the provision in an annual infrastructure naming bill. The lawmakers did, however, have to amend a bill that requires everyone except medal of honor recipients to have been dead for at least 3 years before a bridge or highway can be renamed in their honor.
Around the country, former presidents have often served as inspiration to people looking to name infrastructure, such as buildings, parks, or monuments.
Back in late April, a freshman Ohio lawmaker introduced a bill to formally rename Mosquito Lake State Park, a 7,000-acre park in Trumbull County, Ohio, to Donald J. Trump State Park. “This legislation is meant to honor the commitment and dedication that our 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, bestowed upon the great people of Trumbull County,” said state Rep. Mike Loychik in a statement, reports USA Today.
After former President Barack Obama left office in 2017, a number of places jumped at the opportunity to have pieces of the city bear his name.
Over in California, the West Hollywood City Council tried to get Los Angeles International Airport renamed after Obama, reported USA Today in 2019. Although the plan didn’t work, others in the city have successfully renamed streets after the forty-fourth president.
Schools in other states, such as Virginia, Texas, and New Jersey, also bear the name of the forty-fourth president. (As The Daily Wire reported, some pro-immigration activists have recently been questioning whether Obama’s name should be on schools.)
Some places renamed themselves after Obama more quickly than others.
Qued Elementary Charter School, which branded itself after the forty-fourth president when President George W. Bush was serving his final week in office, according to The Los Angeles Times. One school in New York waited even less time — Ludlum Elementary School was renamed after Obama in mid-November 2008. The superintendent claimed the students came up with the idea after holding a mock presidential debate as a fifth-grade project.
“After the debate, the children said, ‘If Obama really is elected president, can we rename our school?” Joseph Laria, the Hempstead Union Free School District superintendent at the time, told CBS News back in November 2008. “It was so well done in terms of content and articulation that the school staff picked up the baton and made a presentation to the school board.”
RELATED: Illinois School Will Not Be Named After Barack And Michelle Obama Following Protests
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The United Nations’ nuclear activity watchdog said Monday that it has not been able to access data necessary to keep track of Iran’s nuclear program since the end of February when Iran began restricting international inspections of its nuclear facilities.
The International Atomic Energy Agency made the revelation in a confidential document that was distributed to U.N. member countries and viewed by The Associated Press, which first reported on the contents of the document.
In the document, the IAEA said it has “not had access to the data from its online enrichment monitors and electronic seals, or had access to the measurement recordings registered by its installed measurement devices” since Feb. 23.
Last month, Iran said it would begin producing uranium enriched to 60%, close to the level needed to construct a nuclear weapon, for the first time after one of its nuclear facilities was attacked. Iran blamed the attack on Israel. Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium is now estimated to be about 16 times higher than the level permitted by the 2015 nuclear deal.
The agency had admitted previously that Iran’s move to restrict access to its nuclear facilities meant more limited access to surveillance cameras. However, the IAEA admitted in the document that it could only give an estimate of Iran’s nuclear stockpile due to the restricted access.
Iran began restricting international access to its nuclear facilities in February in an attempt to pressure the Biden administration and European countries to lift harsh sanctions that hobbled the Islamic Republic’s economy.
Former President Trump levied crippling sanctions on Iran during his term, including a new batch of sanctions as late as January, just before he left office.
In February, President Biden said he would not lift sanctions on Tehran in a bid to convince the state terror sponsor to restart negotiations unless Tehran halts its uranium-enrichment efforts, a precursor to nuclear weapon development.
Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has demanded that Biden lift the sanctions as a condition for Iran to pump the brakes on its nuclear program and return to abiding by the terms of the 2015 nuclear deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.
However, Biden has said he is seeking to return to the nuclear deal, which Trump announced he was pulling the U.S. out of in May 2018.
“This was a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made,” Trump said at the time. “It didn’t bring calm, it didn’t bring peace, and it never will.”
Biden called his predecessor’s decision “reckless” to abandon the deal, the signature foreign policy accomplishment of the Obama administration.
“I will offer Tehran a credible path back to diplomacy,” Biden wrote CNN op-ed in September before he was elected. “If Iran returns to strict compliance with the nuclear deal, the United States would rejoin the agreement as a starting point for follow-on negotiations.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.It turns out John Cena’s apology to the Chinese Communist government for referring to Taiwan as a “country” may have been for naught.
According to The Hollywood Reporter (THR), the latest installment in the “Fast & Furious” franchise, “F9,” dropped 85% in the Chinese box office during its second weekend following a strong opening of $136 million one week prior.
“After two laps, the Vin Diesel/John Cena action flick has totaled $185.3 million. That’s slightly ahead of where franchise spinoff Hobbs & Shaw was sitting at a similar point in its China run, but far weaker than the preceding franchise mainstays Furious 7 and The Fate of the Furious, which topped out at $390.9 million in 2015 and $392.8 million in 2017, respectively,” reported THR.
“Chinese ticketing app Maoyan currently projects F9 to finish at $211.9 million — certainly not a number to slouch at but far inferior to the franchise’s recent heights, especially since China’s theatrical market is back to full earning capacity,” according to the report.
Last week, one of the film’s chief stars, John Cena, ignited a firestorm across the internet, angering both the left and the right when he issued a groveling apology to China, in Mandarin, for having referred to Taiwan as an independent country — a statement of objective fact — in a previous interview.
“Hi China, I’m John Cena. I’m in the middle of Fast and Furious 9 promotions. I’m doing a lot of interviews. I made a mistake in one of my interviews. Everyone was asking me if I could use Chinese – [movie] staff gave me a lot of information, so there was a lot of interviews and information,” he said in a video posted to the Chinese social network Weibo. “I made one mistake. I have to say something very, very, very important now. I love and respect China and Chinese people. I’m very, very sorry about my mistake. I apologize, I apologize, I’m very sorry. You must understand that I really love, really respect China and the Chinese people. My apologies. See you.”
Practically no one, not even men as far-left as Keith Olbermann and Stephen Colbert, defended Cena’s apology; the wrestler-turned-actor was universally mocked all over social media.
Whether or not John Cena’s “gaffe” had anything to do with the film’s sudden box office drop has yet to be determined. As THR noted, the Chinese box office fluctuates rather quickly if negative word-of-mouth spreads. Though the “Fast & Furious” franchise has been a favorite of the Chinese people for several years, “F9” has been “hit by withering reviews from the start.”
“Its social scores on Maoyan are 7.5 and 5.5 on Douban — lower than most major titles released this year,” noted THR. ” Still, earlier in its run the film was forecasted to earn significantly more, and Cena’s public relations debacle certainly hasn’t helped.”
RELATED: John Cena Blasted After Apologizing To China: ‘China Just Neutered’ Him ‘For The Entire World To See’
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Now that businesses are beginning to reopen, Americans are returning to the movies.
Over the weekend, “A Quiet Place Part II” broke a pandemic record by grossing $57 million domestically. Internationally, the movie grossed $22 million, putting its box office total at close to $80 million overall.
“All are the biggest domestic numbers in the pandemic-era and — more significantly — are almost on par with the first Quiet Place, which posted a three-day debut of $50.2 million in 2018,” reported The Hollywood Reporter (THR). “The sequel’s loud performance is a victory for Paramount and the theatrical experience and proves that the box office is righting itself after 15 months of being ravaged by the COVID-19 crisis.”
In order to promote the big-screen experience prior to the film’s transfer to the streaming service Paramount+ in 45 days, director/actor John Krasinski took a six-city tour over the past week to make surprise appearances at screenings.
“‘A Quiet Place II’ has the advantage of getting an exclusive theatrical release before hitting sister streaming service Paramount+ in 45 days. As part of the marketing campaign, Krasinski completed a six-city tour surprising audiences in order to promote the big screen experience. Paramount distribution president Chris Aronson declared the box-office victory a “huge win” for theatrical moviegoing.
“This is a huge win for theatrical,” said Aronson. “The theatrical business has been changed numerous times throughout history but never to the point where theaters were shut down for months and months.”
“It’s quite astounding that A Quiet Place Part II could generate the kind of box office that would be considered impressive in the pre-pandemic era and rank this performance in the top echelon of horror movie debuts,” said Comscore analyst Paul Dergarabedian.
Releasing “A Quiet Place Part II” exclusively in theaters prior to its streaming transfer was an undoubtedly risky affair, something that Disney did not even attempt with its release of “Cruella,” which took home $26.5 million in the box office while simultaneously being offered for $30 on Disney+ Premier Access. Overall, Hollywood earned $100 million domestically on Memorial Day weekend. Analyst Shawn Robbins hailed the victory as a “giant leap forward.”
“This is a giant leap forward from where the industry has been throughout the past year, and a table-setting weekend for what sustained recovery will look like throughout summer and beyond. The optics and symbolism of large audiences safely returning to cinemas outweigh the box office dollars themselves, but these numbers are still quite impressive even by pre-pandemic standards,” Robbins said.
“A Quiet Place Part II” earned rave reviews from critics and audiences alike. Currently, the film holds a 91% on Rotten Tomatoes and an 8.0 rating on IMDB. The overall consensus hailed the movie for managing to grip the viewers while side-stepping some of its more glaring flaws.
“There are nitpicks – some small, some a little bigger – but mostly, ‘A Quiet Place Part II’ does its job by giving viewers more and leaving them wanting even more. That’s the modern franchise way,” wrote Adam Graham of Detroit News.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A Tennessee hat store is apologizing after backlash over the store’s sale of yellow Star of David patches with the words “Not Vaccinated” emblazoned on them, a design that echoes the yellow Stars of David that Nazis forced Jews to wear.
The Nashville store, hatWRKS, owned by Gigi Gaskins, issued an apology per an Instagram post on Saturday, saying no disrespect was intended by selling the Star of David badges.
“In NO WAY did I intend to trivialize the Star of David or disrespect what happened to millions of people,” Gaskins wrote in her apology Instagram post.
“That is not who I am & what I stand for. My intent was not to exploit or make a profit. My hope was to share my genuine concern & fear, and to do all that I can to make sure that nothing like that ever happens again. I sincerely apologize for any insensitivity,” Gaskins wrote.
The no longer active Instagram post that sparked the controversy featured a picture of Gaskins sporting the Star of David patch and said “trucker caps” with the same design would also be available.
And here’s the scene at Hatworks/Hateworks today… pic.twitter.com/7LorTIvIKR — The Tennessee Holler (@TheTNHoller) May 29, 2021
After the controversial Instagram post, protesters gathered outside the store to express their disapproval. Some brought signs with a blown-up version of the photo of Gaskin wearing the Star of David patch, and other demonstrators brought a banner reading, “NO NAZIS IN NASHVILLE.”
The store initially appeared to defend the design of the Star of David patch, writing in one Instagram post, “all unvaccinated people will be segregated from society, marked & must wear a mask. what comes next?”
“There is a historical parallel to fascism to be drawn,” hatWRKS wrote in the post.
Several companies pulled their products from hatWRKS following the controversy, including apparel company Stetson, which announced that it and its distribution partners would no longer sell Stetson products at the store.
“As a result of the offensive content and opinions shared by HatWRKS in Nashville, Stetson and our distribution partners will cease the sale of all Stetson products,” Stetson said in a tweet.
Hat company Goorin Bros originally said it was “investigating internally what actions can be taken and how quickly.”
Later, owner and president Ben Goorin said the company would end its distribution with hatWRKS “effective immediately,” saying the company is “horrified” by the badge.
“The Jewish badge was a key element used by Nazis beginning in 1939 who planned to persecute and eventually murder millions of Jews. They used the badge to humiliate, segregate, and control the movement of all Jews over seven years old,” Goorin wrote in an Instagram post.
“To make a mockery of the Holocaust in any form is unacceptable and completely insensitive. We are looking at all options to fix and address this unfortunate circumstance,” he wrote.
Kangol Headwear issued a similar statement, announcing that they gave Gaskins a “chance to change,” but “her further posts indicate to us that she is not sincere in her apology.”
The company added that it is “permanently terminating” hatWRKS Nashville as a customer of the Kangol Headwear brand “effective immediately.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Monday, President Joe Biden issued a proclamation for the centennial of the 1921 Tulsa race massacre and declared May 31, 2021, a “Day of Remembrance.”
According to history.com, the Tulsa Race Massacre took place over 18 hours from May 31 to June 1, 1921 in the mostly black Greenwood neighborhood in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
“The event remains one of the worst incidents of racial violence in U.S. history, and, for a period, remained one of the least-known: News reports were largely squelched, despite the fact that hundreds of people were killed and thousands left homeless,” the website wrote.
The massacre began after an incident occurred between a black man and a white woman. According to the Tulsa Historical Society and Museum, Tulsa police arrested the young man and started an investigation. A report in the Tulsa Tribune, however, initiated “a confrontation between black and white armed mobs around the courthouse where the sheriff and his men had barricaded the top floor to protect Rowland. Shots were fired and the outnumbered African Americans began retreating to the Greenwood District.”
The historical society continued, “In the early morning hours of June 1, 1921, Greenwood was looted and burned by white rioters. Governor Robertson declared martial law, and National Guard troops arrived in Tulsa. Guardsmen assisted firemen in putting out fires, took African Americans out of the hands of vigilantes and imprisoned all black Tulsans not already interned. Over 6,000 people were held at the Convention Hall and the Fairgrounds, some for as long as eight days.”
After the violence ended, “35 city blocks lay in charred ruins, more than 800 people were treated for injuries and contemporary reports of deaths began at 36. Historians now believe as many as 300 people may have died.”
Biden is scheduled to visit Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Tuesday where he will deliver a speech and meet with survivors, Politico reported.
The Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission was reportedly putting together a “Remember & Rise” event on May 31 that was scheduled to include a performance by singer John Legend, and speakers, including Stacey Abrams. The event was canceled, however, “because lawyers representing survivors and descendants demanded a higher fee for their participation in the event than had been originally agreed upon, a commission official said,” NBC reported.
Tulsa Mayor GT Bynum posted a statement on social media about Biden’s visit, saying, “We are grateful that President Biden will join in the centennial commemoration of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. His visit honors our neighbors who were killed in this city’s worst moment and the work being done to build a better Tulsa for future generations.”
In his proclamation, Biden called on Americans “to reflect on the deep roots of racial terror in our Nation and recommit to the work of rooting out systemic racism across our country.”
“The Federal Government must reckon with and acknowledge the role that it has played in stripping wealth and opportunity from Black communities,” Biden said.
He also discussed his own policy proposals, adding, “The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to acknowledging the role Federal policy played in Greenwood and other Black communities and addressing longstanding racial inequities through historic investments in the economic security of children and families, programs to provide capital for small businesses in economically disadvantaged areas, including minority-owned businesses, and ensuring that infrastructure projects increase opportunity, advance racial equity and environmental justice, and promote affordable access.”
Read the proclamation below:
One hundred years ago, a violent white supremacist mob raided, firebombed, and destroyed approximately 35 square blocks of the thriving Black neighborhood of Greenwood in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Families and children were murdered in cold blood. Homes, businesses, and churches were burned. In all, as many as 300 Black Americans were killed, and nearly 10,000 were left destitute and homeless. Today, on this solemn centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre, I call on the American people to reflect on the deep roots of racial terror in our Nation and recommit to the work of rooting out systemic racism across our country. Before the Tulsa Race Massacre, Greenwood was a thriving Black community that had grown into a proud economic and cultural hub. At its center was Greenwood Avenue, commonly known as Black Wall Street. Many of Greenwood’s 10,000 residents were Black sharecroppers who fled racial violence after the Civil War. In the decades following the Civil War and Reconstruction, Greenwood became a place where Black Americans were able to make a new start and secure economic progress despite the continued pain of institutional and overt racism. The community was home to a growing number of prominent Black entrepreneurs as well as working-class Black families who shared a commitment to social activism and economic opportunity. As Greenwood grew, Greenwood Avenue teemed with successful Black-owned businesses, including restaurants, grocery stores, hotels, and offices for doctors, lawyers, and dentists. The community also maintained its own school system, post office, a savings and loan institution, hospital, and bus and taxi service. Despite rising Jim Crow systems and the reemergence of the Ku Klux Klan, Greenwood’s economic prosperity grew, as did its citizens’ demands for equal rights. This made the community a source of pride for many Black Americans. It also made the neighborhood and its families a target of white supremacists. In 2 days, a violent mob tore down the hard-fought success of Black Wall Street that had taken more than a decade to build. In the years that followed, the destruction caused by the mob was followed by laws and policies that made recovery nearly impossible. In the aftermath of the attack, local ordinances were passed requiring new construction standards that were prohibitively expensive, meaning many Black families could not rebuild. Later, Greenwood was redlined by mortgage companies and deemed “hazardous” by the Federal Government so that Black homeowners could not access home loans or credit on equal terms. And in later decades, Federal investment, including Federal highway construction, tore down and cut off parts of the community. The attack on Black families and Black wealth in Greenwood persisted across generations. The Federal Government must reckon with and acknowledge the role that it has played in stripping wealth and opportunity from Black communities. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to acknowledging the role Federal policy played in Greenwood and other Black communities and addressing longstanding racial inequities through historic investments in the economic security of children and families, programs to provide capital for small businesses in economically disadvantaged areas, including minority-owned businesses, and ensuring that infrastructure projects increase opportunity, advance racial equity and environmental justice, and promote affordable access. A century later, the fear and pain from the devastation of Greenwood is still felt. As Viola Fletcher, a 107-year-old survivor of the Tulsa Race Massacre courageously testified before the Congress recently, “I will never forget the violence of the white mob when we left our home. I still see Black men being shot, Black bodies lying in the street. I still smell smoke and see fire. I still see Black businesses being burned. I still hear airplanes flying overhead. I hear the screams. I have lived through the massacre every day. Our country may forget this history, but I cannot.” With this proclamation, I commit to the survivors of the Tulsa Race Massacre, including Viola Fletcher, Hughes Van Ellis, and Lessie Benningfield Randle, the descendants of victims, and to this Nation that we will never forget. We honor the legacy of the Greenwood community, and of Black Wall Street, by reaffirming our commitment to advance racial justice through the whole of our government, and working to root out systemic racism from our laws, our policies, and our hearts. NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 31, 2021, a Day of Remembrance: 100 Years After The 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. I call upon the people of the United States to commemorate the tremendous loss of life and security that occurred over those 2 days in 1921, to celebrate the bravery and resilience of those who survived and sought to rebuild their lives again, and commit together to eradicate systemic racism and help to rebuild communities and lives that have been destroyed by it. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth. JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
This article has been updated to provide clarity.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Parents at New York City’s elite private Dalton School have come out in force against videos dealing with the topic of masturbation that were shown to their first-grade children.
Parents who send their children to the $55,000 a year school have “bombarded” the school with complaints about Dalton Director of Health & Wellness Justine Ang Fonte’s curriculum, the New York Post reported.
Fonte showed 6-year-olds a cartoon during her sex ed class that featured small children discussing touching themselves “because it feels good.”
“Hey, how come my penis gets big sometimes and points up in the air?” a little boy cartoon character says in the video.
“Sometimes I touch my penis because it feels good,” he adds.
“Sometimes when I’m in my bath or when mom puts me to bed, I like to touch my vulva too,” a little girl character says.
An adult character describes what an erection and a clitoris are and tells them not to touch their private parts in public.
The curriculum reportedly includes multiple lessons on gender identity and gender expression as well.
Fonte insisted that she does not use the word “masturbation” in her classes, but parents still expressed outrage that they were not consulted about the material being presented to their young children.
“We are furious,” one Dalton mother told The Post. “We were horrified to learn this was shown to our first-grade 6- and 7-year-old kids without our knowledge or consent. But it’s so hard to fight back because you’ll get canceled and your child will suffer.”
Fonte previously came under fire from parents at another elite Manhattan school for a “porn literacy” workshop she ran for high school students, part of a health and sexuality workshop, the Post previously reported.
About 120 juniors, girls and boys, at Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School were subjected to Fonte’s class, called “Pornography Literacy: An intersectional focus on mainstream porn,” which presented them with explicit material including slides.
Fonte’s class included material such as semi-nude women in bondage, porn genres including “incest-themed,” “barely legal,” and “kink and BDSM,” and the most searched pornography terms of 2019 including “creampie,” “anal,” and “gangbang.”
Parents initially heard about the objectionable first grade sex-ed classes last fall but were reportedly assured that they had “misinterpreted” what the class was about.
The head of Dalton School, Jim Best, announced last month that he was stepping down to focus on “other exciting and inspiring opportunities” as the school weathers criticism from parents.
Recently, a Texas school district found itself in a similar controversy and apologizing to parents after books with inappropriate content including graphic sex scenes were assigned to teens as part of the reading curriculum.
Some of the books that Leander Independent School District north of Austin provided high schoolers included extremely graphic sex scenes with BDSM themes and the use of sex toys as well as frequent foul language.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Officials from the Department of Veterans Affairs National Cemetery Administration confirmed Monday, that a large American flag and a number of smaller flags were stolen from a Southern California veterans cemetery over Memorial Day weekend.
Les’ Melnyk, a spokesperson for the VA’s National Cemetery Administration, said the garrison flag at Los Angeles National Cemetery was reported stolen at some point late Sunday or early Monday, according to The Associated Press.
Melnyk said that the gates of the cemetery were closed during the crime.
Melnyk added that Veterans Affairs police are looking into the incident involving the massive flag, which is 25 feet by 30 feet.
The theft “cannot detract in the slightest way from the honor and respect we pay on this Memorial Day to those servicemen and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation,” Melnyk said.
Rebekah Adams, who volunteers at the Los Angeles National Cemetery Support Foundation, said it would be hard to take the flag from its position since it is typically carried by three people, the AP reported.
“It’s so sad and shocking something like this would happen on Memorial Day,” Adams said.
Memorial Day Weekend 2021 saw support from many sides of the aisle as Americans took the weekend to remember and honor the fallen members of the United States military.
As The Daily Wire reported, Chris Pratt wrote a long Instagram message in which he recalled the many soldiers who sacrificed their lives in the service of this nation.
“America’s exceptional armed forces have altered the course of the world for the better. From the Union Army defeating slave-owning confederates to the Greatest Generation and her Allies vanquishing the Nazis or our special operators hunting down the perpetrators of 9/11. We count the names of each fallen soldier lest they be countless. They are the good guys. They run to the sound of gunfire. They know pain and suffering we never will,” Pratt said.
“Pratt then scolded those who may wish to bemoan America in the comments, reminding them that they would be put in prison if they criticized the government in other countries,” The Daily Wire noted.
Vice President Kamala Harris, however, received backlash over a tweet she released for Memorial Day Weekend.
“Enjoy the long weekend,” Harris wrote along with her own picture, The Daily Wire reported.
Enjoy the long weekend. pic.twitter.com/ilGOrod4AW — Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) May 29, 2021
“Remember when Biden & Harris promised all that ‘dignity’ if they won?” Fox News host Laura Ingraham asked.
Remember when Biden & Harris promised all that “dignity” if they won? https://t.co/58m1EiQEcj https://t.co/rCciSqbjmZ — Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) May 29, 2021
“…and pay tribute to the courageous men and women of our nation’s military who sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties,” tweeted Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY).
…and pay tribute to the courageous men and women of our nation’s military who sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties. #MemorialDay2021 https://t.co/9QUwwuhqHe — Lee Zeldin (@RepLeeZeldin) May 29, 2021
“This is unreal,” wrote Newsmax contributor and retired U.S. Marine Corps gunnery sergeant Jessie Jane Duff. “No regard or gratitude for the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation. Could you possibly be more obtuse, @VP?”
This is unreal. No regard or gratitude for the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation. Could you possibly be more obtuse, @VP?#MemorialDay #MemorialDayWeekend #Freedom https://t.co/QtgwGZpwLG — Jessie Jane Duff (@JessieJaneDuff) May 29, 2021
After receiving criticism for the initial tweet, Harris put out another tweet that commemorated the holiday on Sunday.
“Throughout our history, our service men (sic) and women have risked everything to defend our freedoms and our country. As we prepare to honor them on Memorial Day, we remember their service and their sacrifice,” Harris wrote in the Sunday post, as reported by The Daily Wire.
Throughout our history our service men and women have risked everything to defend our freedoms and our country. As we prepare to honor them on Memorial Day, we remember their service and their sacrifice. — Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) May 30, 2021
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Portland, Oregon, has seen a “seven-fold” increase in its homicide rate, and more Portland residents have been killed this year than in all of 2019, according to a Monday report in the Seattle Times.
The homicide and gun violence rates have gotten so bad that Portland residents held a “March Against Murder” demonstration, “protesting lives lost in a huge escalation of gun violence in Oregon’s largest city,” the outlet said.
The city’s murder rate is still low compared to most major cities, but the number of dead is ever-increasing, and most are minority Portland residents.
“As of Sunday morning, 37 people had died in Portland homicides this year, a more-than-sevenfold increase compared with the first five months of last year, and a stark contrast to Seattle, a larger city, where 11 homicides had been recorded as of late May. So far this year, the victims have disproportionately been people of color,” the Seattle Times noted.
The trend is not new.
“More people died of gunfire last year in Portland — 40 — than the entire tally of homicides the previous year. The number of shootings — 900 — was nearly 2 1/2 times higher than the year before. The spike has continued this year, with more than 150 shootings, including 45 people wounded and 12 killed so far,” The Associated Press reported in March, noting that 2020 was the city’s deadliest year in nearly a quarter-century.
The spike in crime follows the city’s decision to strip funding from its police department and abolish a Portland police unit aimed at reducing gun violence, the Gun Violence Reduction Team, which disappeared last June, after the death of George Floyd while in the custody of the Minneapolis Police Department.
Portland’s mayor, Ted Wheeler, begged to differ, suggesting last January that the murder rate was rising in Portland because it was rising in other major cities across the country — a trend he did not appear to connect to the “Defund the Police” movement.
“I believe if [the Gun Violence Reduction Team] were [around] today, we would still see a substantial, if not identical increase, in shootings in Portland,” Wheeler said. “This is clearly part of a larger national trend.”
Regardless, Wheeler asked to “re-fund” his city’s police department during his State of the City speech in early May.
“The mayor of Portland, Ore., called for nearly $2 million in additional funding for the city’s police force and other agencies Friday, citing a rise in homicides and other violent crime,” Fox News reported. “[M]embers of the city council were either mum or not fully committed so far on whether they’ll back the plan, according to reports.”
“This shooting was brazen and horrific,” Wheeler added on Twitter. “The City and its partners are working hard to prevent and reduce gun violence. It’s a public health crisis that’s harming our entire community.”
Wheeler has, lately, been focused on ending violent demonstrations that have taken place almost nightly in downtown Portland since last summer — demonstrations that claim to be in support of a larger “Black Lives Matter” movement, even though Portland’s BLM leaders have disavowed the destruction, and Portland’s minority residents say they’ve been forgotten, as “anarchist” protesters focus their attacks on federal buildings in the city’s downtown.
“Everybody wants to burn the city down when the police do something, and by right, I’m not going to tell you that we shouldn’t,” a Portland pastor said during the “March Against Murder.” “But what are you willing to do when we’re doing the something? Where are you at, when we’re killing one another?”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The online retail behemoth Amazon has come under fire by law enforcement for allowing a third party to use its e-commerce platform to sell “Blue Lives Murder” merchandise.
In a letter sent to Amazon’s Chief Financial Officer Brian Olsavsky of the Detectives’ Endowment Association (DEA) demanded that the company stop allowing the “disgusting” merchandise to be sold, arguing that it puts cops “at peril and risk.”
“It has come to my attention that your website is selling tee-shirts (sic) and other items emblazoned with the words ‘Blue Lives Murder,’” the letter read. “It’s disheartening that your company would allow this disgusting motto on your sales platform.”
The letter further demanded that the online retail outlet immediately remove the items, arguing that the phrase’s “only purpose is to invite further division, hatred, and violence toward the hard-working men and women of the nation’s Police Departments, who are toiling every day to keep their communities safe.”
“To continue to hawk products emblazoned with this vile phrase puts the lives of Police Officers, and all law enforcement nationwide, at peril and risk,” the letter said.
According to the New York Post, apparel for sale on the site includes “an $8.99 black polyester ‘Blue Lives Murder’ face mask and T-shirts and hoodies featuring with the cop-hating slogan.” Items bearing the message “Blue Lives Aren’t Real” are also for sale on Amazon.
The phrase “Blue Lives Aren’t Real” is nearly identical to statements made by NAACP chapter president Bishop Talbert Swan, who said last year “there is no such thing” as a “blue life” because police choose to do their jobs whereas black people do not choose the color of their skin.
“There’s no such thing as BLUE LIVES… Stop comparing your JOB with my LIFE… Your CAREER is a choice, my BLACKNESS isn’t. #BlackLivesMatter #BlueLivesMatter,” he tweeted.
“No one deserves to be unjustly murdered, police or citizens,” he continued. “If you’re expressing outrage over the shooting of two sheriff’s deputies, but we’re [sic] defending #KyleRittenhouse murdering two protesters in #Kenosha only days ago, you need to shut up and have a seat.”
Bishop Talbert Swan’s tweet came after two sheriff’s deputies were shot in their patrol car parked by a metro station in Compton, California, and he was not the only activist to respond to the news without sympathy. Following the incident, far-left think tank The Gravel Institute said that “blue lives” simply don’t matter.
“On Saturday night, soon after two Los Angeles County Sheriff Deputies seated in their patrol car were shot in the head in an ambush in Compton, a leftist think tank called The Gravel Institute responded to a tweet stating, ‘Say it with me: blue lives matter,’ by replying, ‘Say it with me: they don’t,’” reported The Daily Wire.
While some cities, such as Minneapolis, have taken measures to defund the police, other states have put in measures to prevent such a measure from happening. For instance, the Texas House recently passed a law that penalizes cities that seek to defund the police.
RELATED: ‘Let’s Back The Blue’: Texas House Passes Bill Cracking Down On Cities That Defund Police
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.When Tech. Sgt. Charles H. Coolidge died April 6, 2021, at 99, he was the oldest living Medal of Honor recipient from World War II and the last from the European theater.
Born Aug. 4, 1921, in Signal Mountain, Tennessee, outside Chattanooga, Charles Henry Coolidge faced adversity from an early age. Apart from the formative lessons of growing up during the Great Depression, Coolidge also suffered from a speech impediment caused by a congenital deformation of his tongue. After years of being mocked by his peers and not understood even by his family, Coolidge underwent surgery in the fourth grade that corrected it, but he still had to go through years of diction lessons.
Coolidge’s father, Walter P. Coolidge, Sr., founded the Chattanooga Printing & Engraving Company in 1910, where Charles worked both before and after the war. Even throughout the Depression, Coolidge remembered, his father would care for his employees as best he could. Coolidge learned very young the importance of industry. In addition to working the labor-intensive job at the printing company, where he learned to be an expert bookbinder, Coolidge also sold magazines door-to-door and worked for the Tennessee Valley Authority.
When he was drafted into the U.S. Army on June 16, 1942, at age 20, he was working double shifts at two jobs.
Coolidge was careful to note in interviews how his family’s Christian faith formed him and equipped him for his wartime experience. “My mother and daddy were praying people,” he remembered. “Religion, that was the thing, you were supposed to read the Bible and pray every day, sometimes more than once a day. When they’re shooting at you, you better be praying a whole lot.”
“I’m Sorry, Mac, You’ve Gotta Come And Get Me”
After receiving basic training at Fort McClellan, Alabama, where he almost lost his leg because of an accidental, self-inflicted bayonet wound, he was sent to Camp Butner, North Carolina. Then he went to Camp Edwards in Massachusetts, where he was assigned to M Company, 3rd Battalion, 141st Infantry Regiment, 36th Infantry Division.
In April 1943, Coolidge’s unit shipped overseas to North Africa to prepare for the invasion of Europe. When they landed near Paestum, Italy, in September of that year, the soldiers of the 36th Infantry Division were the first U.S. troops to see combat on the continent. As his division pressed their way through the Italian peninsula toward France, Coolidge would go on to receive a Silver Star for his actions as a machine gun section leader at Velletri in May 1944, just days before they entered Rome.
The actions for which a 23-year-old Coolidge received his Medal of Honor began Oct. 22, 1944, when he and his 27 men were ordered to cover the right flank of the 3rd Battalion by securing several hills east of Belmont-sur-Buttant, France, along the German border.
On Oct. 24, while Coolidge and his men were performing reconnaissance on Hill 623, they were met by a group of Germans emerging from a dense forest. Taking with him George Ferguson, one of his soldiers who knew some German, Coolidge went out to meet them and instructed Ferguson to ask them if they wished to surrender. While they were speaking, Coolidge spotted a German behind a nearby tree readying his rifle to shoot them, but he managed to cut him down with his carbine first.
A ferocious firefight then erupted that would span four days, during which Coolidge and his outnumbered platoon repeatedly repelled German forces. Ferguson was wounded almost immediately, and Coolidge dragged him from the crest of the hill to safety. With no officers present, Coolidge calmly assumed leadership of the platoon, many of whom were green replacement soldiers who had never seen combat.
On Oct. 27, the fourth day of fighting, two German tanks rumbled up the hill followed by more infantry. One of the tanks approached Coolidge and stopped within about 30 meters of him before the hatch opened and a German soldier popped out. Coolidge stood up and looked him in the eye.
“Do you guys want to give up?” the tank commander asked in perfect English, echoing what Coolidge had asked the Germans days before.
“I’m sorry, Mac, you’ve gotta come and get me,” Coolidge answered.
He darted between trees as the tank’s turret swung back and forth, firing five times at him in close range but narrowly missing. Shrapnel skimmed the tip of his boot and took off some leather, but he escaped the ordeal unscathed. When a bazooka he found nearby failed to fire, Coolidge resorted to lobbing a volley of grenades at the enemy, all while keeping his head as he issued orders to the other men.
“Finally it became apparent that the enemy, in greatly superior force, supported by tanks, would overrun the position,” Coolidge’s Medal of Honor citation reads in part. “TSgt. Coolidge, displaying great coolness and courage, directed and conducted an orderly withdrawal, being himself the last to leave the position. As a result of TSgt. Coolidge’s heroic and superior leadership, the mission of his combat group was accomplished throughout four days of continuous fighting against numerically superior enemy troops in rain and cold and amid dense woods.”
They later learned that despite the overwhelming odds against them, they had killed 26 Germans and wounded more than 60. After breaking through into Germany over the Vosges Mountains with his division, Coolidge was awarded the Medal of Honor by Gen. Wade H. Haislip in a field near Dortmund on June 18, 1945.
“I didn’t care about me,” Coolidge said of his heroic actions. “I cared about my men. I’d do anything for them.”
WATCH:
“My Mother Was Praying For Me”
Coolidge’s son, Lt. Gen. (Ret.) Charles H. Coolidge Jr., recalled to The Daily Wire when he once asked his father how he was able to face down two German tanks without fear.
Clarifying that he was only aware of one tank at the time, his father replied, “Well, my mother was praying for me, so I knew that I was in His hands.”
Coolidge Jr. said faith was an indispensable support to his father and that his life showed it. When he spoke of his wartime ordeals, Coolidge always credited God for his ability to repeatedly emerge from harrowing circumstances unharmed.
“Anything I did do during the war, I give God the credit,” Coolidge said in an interview with the Congressional Medal of Honor Society. “I mean, Jesus walked with me every step of the way. You cannot believe what my men — they thought I … [had] lost my mind. Because I would go anywhere, do anything, never worried that they were shooting at me.”
“I still say the Lord must’ve curved many a bullet that I knew absolutely they were shooting at me,” he added. “I mean, I’m positive they were shooting at me.”
Coolidge, who claimed the life expectancy of infantrymen was roughly 12 days, was never even wounded.
During his funeral at First Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga, Coolidge’s pastor discerned the role his faith played in his life. “Long before he was a hero in the European theater, both at Anzio and the Battle of the Bulge, he was a man of faith who knew where he was going for eternity,” he said.
“He couldn’t predict what was going to happen in those European battlefields, in which many men — many right next to him and around him — lost their lives in an instant, but he knew in life and in death, he was the Lord’s and he would be with Him in glory someday soon.”
WATCH:
“Love Thy Neighbor”
After the war, Coolidge returned to Signal Mountain and remained in the area for the rest of his life. “He came back from the war and of course he was a hero, so he was offered many jobs,” Coolidge Jr. said. For a time he worked for the Veterans Administration but was willing to take a salary cut to return to the family printing company when his father asked for help.
“He was very loyal, very family-oriented,” Coolidge Jr. said.
The importance of family was one of the hallmarks of Coolidge’s life. Coolidge Jr. said his father was “very concerned” about where the nation was headed and believed most of its problems were attributable to the breakdown of the family, which he saw as the bedrock of a healthy culture.
One of the battles Coolidge had to fight in later life began in his 40s when he started to show symptoms of multiple sclerosis in 1966. The disease afflicted him for 55 years, but “in combating the illness, he showed the same dedication, calmness, deep faith, and good humor that had motivated him during the war.”
Regarding his father’s legacy, Coolidge Jr. described the Charles H. Coolidge National Medal of Honor Heritage Center in Chattanooga as the capstone of a life that was dedicated to the six values the Medal of Honor represents: courage, sacrifice, patriotism, citizenship, integrity, and commitment. To these Coolidge Jr. adds love, quoting the Scripture that greets visitors at the center: “Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.”
Listing the many profound problems the country is facing, Coolidge Jr. said his father believed all of them could be “solved with one sentence.”
“Love thy neighbor as thyself,” Coolidge said, referencing the passage in the Gospels when Jesus was asked to describe the greatest commandment. “That my dad’s answer. He said you don’t need new policies, you don’t need any new law. You just need to live by that.”
Related:
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.China announced Monday that it will now allow couples to have three children, further updating the Chines Communist Party’s infamous “one-child policy” amid concerns that the country’s declining birth rate has it headed for a population crash.
“China said on Monday that it would allow all married couples to have three children, ending a two-child policy that has failed to raise the country’s declining birthrates and avert a demographic crisis,” The New York Times reported.
“The announcement by the ruling Communist Party represents an acknowledgment that its limits on reproduction, the world’s toughest, have jeopardized the country’s future,” the outlet continued. “The labor pool is shrinking and the population is graying, threatening the industrial strategy that China has used for decades to emerge from poverty to become an economic powerhouse.”
Births in China have fallen in recent years, and the country’s “total fertility rate” stands at just 1.3 children per couple, below the country’s “replacement rate” of 2.1 children per couple. Harder still, the country’s population is aging, leaving China on the verge of having to care for thousands of elderly individuals who had only one child — or none at all.
For some, the news was a welcome change from earlier policies that first limited couples to one child, then two. Others, though, told media that they are not interested in having more children simply because the government allows them to, according to The Guardian. Still others suggested that while China is improving its family policies, it has yet to provide any encouragement to couples who have not yet had children through improved maternity care and family leave policies.
“Don’t they know that most young people are already tired enough just trying to feed themselves?” one anonymous commenter told The New York Times.
“The decision-makers have probably realized that the population situation is relatively severe,” “an independent demographer based in the southern Chinese city of Zhanjiang” added. “But merely opening up the policy to three children and not encouraging births as a whole, I don’t think there will be a significant increase in the fertility rate. Many people don’t want to have a second child, let alone a third child.”
The policy, of course, applies only to certain populations.
As The Associated Press reported last year, while China is trying to pressure ethnic Chinese residents to reproduce, it is forcibly sterilizing members of ethnic minority populations, including the Uyghurs.
“The Chinese government is taking draconian measures to slash birth rates among Uighurs and other minorities as part of a sweeping campaign to curb its Muslim population, even as it encourages some of the country’s Han majority to have more children,” the AP said last year.
“While individual women have spoken out before about forced birth control, the practice is far more widespread and systematic than previously known, according to an AP investigation based on government statistics, state documents, and interviews with 30 ex-detainees, family members, and a former detention camp instructor,” the outlet added. “The campaign over the past four years in the far west region of Xinjiang is leading to what some experts are calling a form of ‘demographic genocide.'”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.New York City Heart Of Pride’s (HOP’s) membership voted, last week, to overturn a decision by the group’s board of directors to ban officers of the New York Police Department’s Gay Officers Action League (GOAL) from marching in this year’s Pride Parade, but HOP’s board will not give in, doubling down on their decision to reduce the number of law enforcement at the annual LGBTQ event.
“Less than a week after Heritage of Pride (HOP), or NYC Pride, announced a ban on police contingents through 2025, the organization’s members voted on May 20 to allow the Gay Officers Action League (GOAL) to march armed and in uniform — but HOP’s executive board subsequently stepped in and set their own policy,” Gay City News reported last week.
The group’s board now says that the only way they will consider allowing GOAL into the parade is if, in the future, they pledge to march out of uniform, because armed and uniformed officers make parade attendees feel “unsafe.”
“In the end, HOP’s executive board voted to maintain the ban on GOAL members marching armed and in uniform, though the organization is ‘willing to discuss the possibility of GOAL as a contingent marching out of uniform,'” the LGBTQ news outlet said.
HOP’s announced, earlier in May, that they planned to eliminate law enforcement’s presence at the annual Pride Parade, banning the GOAL from marching in the parade and pledging to reduce the number of uniformed officers at the event — one of the city’s largest annual parades.
“Police will be banned from participating in NYC Pride events, including its signature LGBTQ march, until 2025, the organization announced Saturday,” The Daily Wire noted in May, citing an ABC News report. “NYC Pride is also working to reduce the New York Police Department’s security and first responder presence at its events,” the organization said.
“We know many LGBT cops,” Andre Thomas of Heritage of Pride said. “But what the institution represents sometimes to a person of color or trans person is violence, and that doesn’t make you feel safe. So that’s the perspective we’re coming from. And it’s a difficult place to be. But we know that’s what our community expects of us at this time.”
HOP’s decision banned “corrections and law enforcement exhibitors at NYC Pride events until 2025. At that time their participation will be reviewed by the Community Relations and Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion committees, as well as the Executive Board. In the meantime, NYC Pride will transition to providing increased community-based security and first responders, while simultaneously taking steps to reduce NYPD presence at events.”
After the group’s membership voted to overrule the board’s decision, the board doubled down, effectively lecturing HOP’s members about intersectionality.
“The NYPD, and policing across America, is fundamentally flawed,” the board noted. “These are institutions that started as slave patrols, and continue to oppress Black, Brown, Indigenous, POC, LGBTQ individuals and individuals who stand at the intersections of these identities.”
“It fell under our purview to do so, as elected representatives of this organization, and we firmly believe that this decision is in the best interest of our community,” the executive board added.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Canada ordered flags to fly at half-mast Sunday, days after an indigenous community announced that they had found hundreds of bodies at one of the schools that the government placed indigenous children in for decades.
The school, located in Kamloops, British Columbia, was one of many schools that took in children the Canadian government forcibly removed from indigenous tribes for mandatory assimilation. Many children in those schools were neglected or abused, and some died.
“To honour the 215 children whose lives were taken at the former Kamloops residential school and all Indigenous children who never made it home, the survivors, and their families, I have asked that the Peace Tower flag and flags on all federal buildings be flown at half-mast,” said Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a statement Sunday.
To honour the 215 children whose lives were taken at the former Kamloops residential school and all Indigenous children who never made it home, the survivors, and their families, I have asked that the Peace Tower flag and flags on all federal buildings be flown at half-mast. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) May 30, 2021
It’s not clear how many children died while attending Kamloops Indian Residential School, which the Catholic Church operated between 1890 and the late 1960s. Previously, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which was tasked with going through the history of the residential school system, confirmed the names of 48 students who died after 1914. Another three students were named as well, but the date of their death is not known.
But Chief Rosanne Casimir of the Tk’emlups te Secwépemc First Nation, who announced this week that remains were detected with the help of ground-penetrating radar, says that they’ve found the bodies of 215 children and there may still be more of them.
“We had a knowing in our community that we were able to verify. To our knowledge, these missing children are undocumented deaths,” said Casimir in a statement earlier this week. “Some were as young as three years old. We sought out a way to confirm that knowing out of deepest respect and love for those lost children and their families, understanding that Tk’emlúps te Secwépemc is the final resting place of these children.”
Archbishop J. Michael Miller, of the Vancouver Archdiocese, called the discovery a reminder “of our ongoing need to bring to light every tragic situation that occurred in residential schools run by the Church,” The New York Times reported. “The passage of time does not erase the suffering,” he said.
According to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission report, indigenous children in the residential schools system died at far higher rates than comparable members of the Canadian population — between the ages of 5 and 14 — until the 1950s.
For example, the rate of confirmed deaths in residential schools was about twice as high in the early 1920s and nearly four times as high between 1926 and 1930. And between 1946 and 1950, when fewer than 1 in 1,000 children in the general population were dying, the confirmed death rate for residential school children was still more than three times higher.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A “Democratic socialist” member of the Denver school board is accused of sexually preying on illegal immigrants, teen anti-gun activists, and a Black Lives Matter member.
Before becoming a target of a police investigation, 22-year old elected official Tay Anderson successfully introduced a measure to remove police officers from the Denver schools.
On May 25, a parent told a Colorado House committee that there is a “sexual predator targeting [Denver Public Schools] children,” the Denver Post reported. She said 62 people had come to her complaining of misconduct ranging from unwanted touching to violent rape, and that 61 of them were illegal immigrants or “Dreamers,” recipients of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). The youngest was 14 years old.
On May 28, the school system said it was “informed that the accusations were against Director Tay Anderson. The Denver police are also aware of these accusations.”
An attorney for Anderson, Christopher Decker, denied the charges to the Post, writing: “Nothing is worse or more unacceptable than the harm caused by sexual assault upon our children, or the related harm caused by not believing those who have been victimized in this way. This is also why false assertions of these horrible crimes act to cheapen and diminish its importance.”
Denver Police Department spokesman Jay Casillas told the Post that it had spoken with the parent, Mary-Katherine Brooks Fleming, but had not heard directly from any of the victims. Illegal immigrants are sometimes afraid to speak to police.
On March 26, a Black Lives Matter chapter with which Anderson was involved lodged a separate allegation of sexual assault against him. “When we say protect Black women this must entail calling in those who have allegedly caused harm, including elected officials. Until Dir. Anderson has accounted for himself in these ways, he will not be welcome to share space with BLM5280 physically or on any of our platforms,” the group wrote.
Anderson also denied that charge.
And three former members of a youth anti-gun group associated with a March for Our Lives rally in Denver told the Denver Post they witnessed sexual misconduct by Anderson. Madison Rose, who was the group’s vice-president, said Anderson was its president when he was 19 years old, and used his position to pressure others — some underage — into sleeping with him, the Post reported.
The school board said May 22 that it had “limited authority to take action due to the fact that Mr. Anderson is an elected official… their position as a director is determined by the will of the voters.”
But on May 30, Anderson said he would “step back” from school board duties while an investigation is ongoing.
Anderson graduated from high school in 2017 and successfully ran for school board in 2019, becoming the youngest school board member. He was also the most bombastic, advocating for students to be able to vote for school board members, turning public schools into weapons in the culture wars, and frequently spouting divisive racial rhetoric.
Do I believe all white people are bad, No I do not. Do I hate all white people,
No I do not. Do I believe white people can experience racism, No I do not. Do I believe all white people benefit from privilege, Yes I do. Do I believe white fragility is real,
Yes I do. — Tay Anderson (@TayAndersonCO) March 21, 2021
Sex work is work. It’s past time to decriminalize sex work. — Tay Anderson (@TayAndersonCO) March 21, 2021
My response to the bigotry that took place in our School Board meeting today from a parent in our public comment session. 1.) Denver Public Schools believes Black Lives Matter! 2.) Wear a mask 😷 pic.twitter.com/66p1BJgLxY — Tay Anderson (@TayAndersonCO) March 19, 2021
This is what happens when white people don’t get their way. pic.twitter.com/vKRi8Umu68 — Tay Anderson (@TayAndersonCO) March 8, 2021
Related: ‘Anti-Racists’ Behind Virginia School Enemies List Now Gathering Info On Children As Top Prosecutor Joins In
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On this Memorial Day, celebrities from Chris Pratt to Rob Lowe to Mark Wahlberg have taken the opportunity to honor America’s fallen soldiers and those who paid the ultimate sacrifice.
In a lengthy Instagram message, Pratt recalled the many soldiers who sacrificed their lives in the service of this nation, noting that “they know pain and suffering that we never will.”
“America’s exceptional armed forces have altered the course of the world for the better. From the Union Army defeating slave owning confederates, to the Greatest Generation and her Allies vanquishing the Nazis or our special operators hunting down the perpetrators of 9/11. We count the names of each fallen soldier lest they be countless. They are the good guys. They run to the sound of gunfire. They know pain and suffering we never will,” Pratt said.
Pratt further added that Americans owe a debt of gratitude to those who gave their lives in service of this country and that our society becomes less “decent” if we fail to show that gratitude.
“They have given us the most free and decent society planet earth has ever seen. We run the risk of losing that decency when we fail to instill gratitude in the minds of our youth or the perspective of what it actually means to be free- should they never learn of the selfless sacrifice of our armed service members in the face of oppressive evil. So join me in showing support for our fallen,” he continued.
Pratt then scolded those who may wish to bemoan America in the comments, reminding them that they would be put in prison if they criticized the government in other countries.
“Take a quiet moment to really consider the sacrifice. And if you use the comments section on posts like this to b*tch and moan about America please understand there are countries in the world where criticizing your government will get you killed or imprisoned,” he concluded. “Criticism is a right and necessity in amending the flawed systems of man. So by all means, let your voice be heard. But never forget your right to free expression is paid for in blood. May God give their souls rest, and may they live in our memories this weekend and always.”
Actor Mark Wahlberg shared a photo of a service member planting flags over the graves of fallen servicemen. “Respect. Honor. Remember,” said Wahlberg.
Actor Rob Lowe reminded people what the “long weekend” of Memorial Day is actually about.
“This weekend is not about eating hot dogs with friends and family and going to the beach or pool. It’s about honoring those who paid the ultimate price allowing us to do those things. WE REMEMBER YOU!” he tweeted.
This weekend is not about eating hot dogs with friends and family and going to the beach or pool. It’s about honoring those who paid the ultimate price allowing us to do those things.
WE REMEMBER YOU! pic.twitter.com/tGbEDLVlv6 — Rob Lowe (@RobLowe) May 29, 2021
RELATED: Kamala Harris Faces Backlash For ‘Obtuse,’ ‘Grotesque’ Memorial Day Weekend Tweet
RELATED: Kamala Harris Pays Tribute To Vets After ‘Tone Deaf’ Memorial Day Tweet
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Monday, Russia reportedly told the United States that it should anticipate “uncomfortable” signals from the country in the near future.
As reported by Reuters, the comments came from Russia’s deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, after President Joe Biden spoke about Russian President Putin’s human rights record on Sunday. The two world leaders are scheduled to come together for a summit on June 16 in Switzerland.
“The Americans must assume that a number of signals from Moscow … will be uncomfortable for them, including in the coming days,” Ryabkov was quoted as saying by the RIA news agency, per Reuters.
Ryabkov also reportedly noted that the country would be ready to answer Biden’s questions about human rights in the country, “and said that Moscow was being more flexible than Washington when it came to drawing up an agenda for the summit, RIA reported.”
Reuters noted that the relationship between Russia and the United States has been tense for several reasons lately, including the United States’ criticism of the imprisonment of Putin critic Alexei Navalny.
Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu reportedly said on Monday that the United States and the NATO transatlantic alliance had ramped up military activity West of Russia recently, which necessitated a response from Moscow.
“The actions of our Western colleagues are destroying the world’s security system and force us to take adequate countermeasures,” the Interfax news agency quoted Shoigu as saying.
“Around 20 military formations and units will be formed in the Western Military District by the end of the year,” he was quoted as saying, per Reuters.
At a Memorial Day event on Sunday, Biden commented on Putin’s human rights record. “I’ll be meeting with President Putin in a couple of weeks in Geneva, making it clear that we will not — we will not stand by and let him abuse those rights,” Biden said, per CNN.
Biden also said that he recently brought up human rights violations during a call with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
“I had a long conversation, for two hours recently with President Xi, making it clear to him that we could do nothing but speak out for human rights around the world because that’s who we are,” Biden said.
Last week, the White House confirmed that the summit between the two leaders will take place on June 16 in Geneva, Switzerland. The Daily Wire reported that in a statement announcing the meeting, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the “leaders will discuss the full range of pressing issues, as we seek to restore predictability and stability to the U.S.-Russia relationship.”
As reported by The Associated Press, the Kremlin, in its own statement announcing the summit, said that the presidents will talk about “the current state and prospects of the Russian-U.S. relations, strategic stability issues and the acute problems on the international agenda, including interaction in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic and settlement of regional conflicts.”
The Biden administration took some action against Russia earlier this year by imposing sanctions against the country as a reaction to the alleged poisoning and imprisonment of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny.
Putin originally challenged Biden to a live, broadcasted discussion earlier this year. As reported by The Daily Wire, the challenge came in response to Biden claiming that Putin was a “killer” during an interview with ABC News.
“I would say to him: I wish you good health,” Putin initially said. “Although they think we are the same as them, we are different people; we have a different genetic and cultural-moral code. But we know how to defend our own interests, and we will work with them but in those areas in which we are interested and on terms we consider favorable for us. And they will have to reckon with that.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The Communist Party in China announced Monday that it is loosening its restrictions on births in the country after census data revealed concerning population numbers.
The Associated Press reported that the ruling party stated couples are now allowed to have three children instead of only two in order to hopefully slow down the accelerated aging of the people in the country, which is reportedly “adding to strains on the economy and society,” per the outlet.
The party has enforced limitations on how many children a couple can have in China since 1980, AP reported, but has begun to worry that the amount of people who are able to work is declining too rapidly while the amount of people who are over the age of 65 is going up.
China got rid of its well-known and established one-child policy in 2015, but it replaced the policy with a limit of two children, which apparently did not do enough to positively impact its birth rate.
President Xi Jinping reportedly led a meeting of the party where they decided to begin “measures to actively deal with the aging population,” the state-owned Xinhua News Agency said. It reportedly stated that leaders came to an agreement that ”implementing the policy of one couple can have three children and supporting measures are conducive to improving China’s population structure.”
“Leaders also agreed China needs to raise its retirement age to keep more people in the workforce and improve pension and health services for the elderly, Xinhua said,” per the AP. No additional information was provided, but the outlet reported that the government has been discussing increasing the official age of retirement.
A New York Times article originally published in early May and updated Monday discussed the population numbers in China. The outlet reported that China’s population is recorded at 1.41 billion people, according to the census taken in 2020. “Since the previous census, in 2010, China’s population grew by 72 million people,” it said, adding that “in percentage terms it is the smallest increase recorded since the Chinese government conducted its first census, in 1953.”
According to the Times, the “new population figure puts the average annual growth rate at 0.53 percent over the past decade, down from 0.57 percent from 2000 to 2010. This puts China on course to be surpassed by India as the world’s most populous nation in the coming years.” It added that China’s “population is also aging rapidly. People over the age of 65 now account for 13.5 percent of the population, the census showed, up from 8.9 percent in 2010.”
The AP noted that around 40% of the 12 million births reported in 2020 were second children, which is “down from 50% in 2017, according to Ning Jizhe, a statistics official who announced the data on May 11.”
The Labor Ministry and Chinese researchers said the amount of people who are able to work might drop to half the population in the country by the year 2050. This would cause the “dependency ratio” to go up, which is the amount of retired people who are counting on workers to create enough income for pension funding, as well as paying taxes for certain services.
On Monday, social media commentary on some China-based websites revealed some people’s thoughts about the change. “Every stage of the problem hasn’t been solved,” said a post on the popular Sina Weibo micro-blogging site signed Tchaikovsky, the AP noted. “Who will raise the baby? Do you have time? I go out early and get back late. Kids don’t know what their parents look like.”
The head of Amnesty International’s China Team, Joshua Rosenzweig, responded to the change in policy, saying, “Governments have no business regulating how many children people have. Rather than ‘optimizing’ its birth policy, China should instead respect people’s life choices and end any invasive and punitive controls over people’s family planning decisions.”
Rosenzweig added, “Under such a policy, couples could still be penalized for their decisions around childbirth. Raising the limit from two children to three would bring China no closer to meeting its human rights obligations. Everyone, regardless of marital status, should be entitled to sexual and reproductive rights, including whether and when to become pregnant.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Rutgers University has struggled the past few days in responding to the current conflict between Israel and Palestine. Now, the university president, Jonathan Holloway, is insisting the school didn’t apologize for condemning anti-Semitism.
Holloway issued a statement on Saturday titled “On Hatred and Bigotry,” stating that Rutgers “deplores hatred and bigotry in all forms. We have not, nor would we ever, apologize for standing against anti-Semitism.”
“Neither hatred nor bigotry has a place at Rutgers, nor should they have a place anywhere in the world. At Rutgers we believe that anti-Semitism, anti-Hinduism, Islamophobia and all forms of racism, intolerance and xenophobia are unacceptable wherever and whenever they occur,” the short statement concluded.
The Daily Wire’s Hank Berrien previously reported on what led to Holloway’s statement. Last Wednesday, Chancellor Christopher J. Molloy and Executive Vice-Chancellor Francine Conway issued a statement titled “Speaking Out Against Anti-Semitism,” in which they asserted:
We are saddened by and greatly concerned about the sharp rise in hostile sentiments and anti-Semitic violence in the United States. Recent incidents of hate directed toward Jewish members of our community again remind us of what history has to teach us. Tragically, in the last century alone, acts of prejudice and hatred left unaddressed have served as the foundation for many atrocities against targeted groups around the world. … Although it has been nearly two decades since the U.S. Congress approved the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act, the upward trend of anti-Semitism continues. We have also been witnesses to the increasing violence between Israeli forces and Hamas in the Middle East leading to the deaths of children and adults and mass displacement of citizens in the Gaza region and the loss of lives in Israel. This recent resurgence of anti-Semitism demands that we again call out and denounce acts of hate and prejudice against members of the Jewish community and any other targeted and oppressed groups on our campus and in our community. … We call out all forms of bigotry, prejudice, discrimination, xenophobia, and oppression, in whatever ways they may be expressed. We condemn any vile acts of hate against members of our community designed to generate fear, devalue, demonize, or dehumanize. We embrace and affirm the value and dignity of each member of our Rutgers community regardless of religion, race, ethnic background, sexual orientation, gender, and ability.
The next day, however, the two Rutgers officials apologized for not communicating “support for our Palestinian community members”:
We are writing today as a follow-up to the message sent on Wednesday, May 26th to the university community. We understand that intent and impact are two different things, and while the intent of our message was to affirm that Rutgers–New Brunswick is a place where all identities can feel validated and supported, the impact of the message fell short of that intention. In hindsight, it is clear to us that the message failed to communicate support for our Palestinian community members. We sincerely apologize for the hurt that this message has caused. … Our goal of creating a beloved community will not be easy, and while we may make mistakes along the way; we hope we can all learn from them as we continue this vital work together.
The latest statement, from the president, is yet another attempt to quell the public relations disaster for the university.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Simon Cowell has canceled his appearance as a member of the judging panel for the upcoming season of “X Factor Israel.”
The iconic reality TV personality signed a deal last year to be one of the judges for the Israeli version of “X Factor” but is now canceling “for his own reasons,” a spokesperson for Reshet, the show’s network, told Variety on Sunday.
Last week as rumors swirled of Cowell’s potential cancellation, a Reshet representative told Variety that members of Cowell’s staff had expressed “legitimate concerns” about Cowell’s involvement in the show, citing the recent violence between Israel and militant Palestinian terrorist group Hamas in Gaza.
A source close to Cowell, who is currently a judge on NBC’s America’s Got Talent, told Jewish News last week that the veteran TV presenter is “bitterly disappointed” that he will not be traveling to Israel to film the show.
“Simon won’t be going to Israel after all,” the source said. “I know it has already been announced that he was one of the judges, but for a number of reasons he just can’t be there in Israel to film the show now. Of course he is bitterly disappointed – but it was a decision he had to take.”
The fourth season of “X Factor Israel” is scheduled to begin filming this summer. Cowell’s appearance on the show would have been the first time he served as a judge on an “X Factor” show outside of the U.K. and U.S.
“Over the years The X Factor format discovered amazing talents from all over the world, I can’t wait to see what Israel has to offer,” Cowell said in December when it was announced he would be serving as a judge for the show.
Cowell spent the latter half of 2020 recovering from complex back surgery after he broke his back in an electric bike accident.
More than 250 people were killed over 11 days of conflict between Gaza and Israel that began on May 10 but was suspended when Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire.
The conflict began when Hamas fired rockets into Israel following a clash between Palestinians and Israeli police at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound. Israel responded with air strikes targeting Hamas in Gaza. Both sides have claimed victory in the conflict.
Hamas, which does not recognize Israel’s right to exist, has long been designated a terrorist organization by the U.S.
Last week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced another $112 million in relief for Palestinians and other relief projects in Gaza and said the U.S. will reopen its consulate in Jerusalem, a move aimed at enhancing diplomatic relations with the Palestinians after they were de-prioritized under former President Trump.
Blinken said that the U.S. is in the process of providing a total of $360 million to support the Palestinian people. The secretary of state has insisted that no aid will go to Hamas.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Shoplifting has become so rampant in San Francisco that retailers are closing stores.
The San Francisco Chronicle reported earlier this month that stores like Walgreens and CVS are closing locations in the city due to “out of control” shoplifting. The outlet spoke to 77-year-old John Susoeff, who used to pick up his prescriptions at a Walgreens two blocks from his home until it closed in March. Now he has to walk six blocks to the next nearest pharmacy. Susoeff sometimes requires a cane to walk, and also picks up prescriptions for his neighbors who have mobility issues.
“It’s terrible,” he told the Chronicle, explaining that almost everything in the store was locked up just before it closed. “I don’t blame them for closing.”
A nearby CVS closed in 2019 after similar issues, the outlet reported.
The problem, retailers told the Chronicle, is apparently organized retail crime:
Retailers attributed a majority of losses to professional thieves instead of opportunistic shoplifters who may be driven by poverty, with one CVS leader calling San Francisco a hub of organized retail crime. Losses have shuttered drugstores providing vital services, even more critical during the pandemic as some stores give out vaccines. “This has been out of control,” said Supervisor Ahsha Safaí, who held a hearing Thursday with retailers, police, the district attorney and probation departments. “People are scared to go into these stores — seniors, people with disabilities, children. It’s just happening brazenly. We can’t just as a city throw up our hands and say this is OK. We have to come up with solutions.”
The increase in shoplifting has caused Walgreens to close 17 locations in San Francisco over the past five years. It still has 53 locations.
Jason Cunningham, regional vice president for pharmacy and retail operations in California and Hawaii, told the Chronicle that closing the stores in San Francisco was an “unpopular and difficult decision” but that theft in San Francisco stores was four times the national average. He also said Walgreens was spending 35 times more on security guards in San Francisco than anywhere else.
CVS has faced a similar problem in the Bay Area, with 42% of its losses in the area coming from 12 stores, which accounted for just 8% of the market share. Brendan Dugan, director of organized retail crime and corporate investigations, said security guards hired by CVS and Walgreens have been assaulted. He added that the majority of shoplifting incidents at CVS came from opportunists but that professional crime accounted for 85% of dollar losses.
The hearing where Dugan and others spoke also featured a statement from Safeway, which said it had seen “dramatic increases” in shoplifting losses and suggested California’s Proposition 47, passed in 2014, may have caused some of the increase. The proposition increased the threshold for thefts to be considered a felony, from $450 to $950. While that may not have made a difference to small-dollar opportunistic criminals, it might have helped organized crime.
“Professional shoplifters can work the system by stealing items under the threshold from one store and hitting several retailers in the same day. To prosecute, the district attorney has pursued aggregated charges for multiple petty theft incidents by the same person, such as a recent case of stolen scooters. Police said a person could also be charged with possession of stolen property worth more than $950,” the Chronicle reported.
Shoplifting is just one of many problems San Francisco is currently facing. As The Daily Wire has reported, the city is battling with a wave of “wokeness” that is causing residents to flee. In February, the school board spent hours discussing whether a gay father of a mixed-race daughter was diverse enough for an all-female volunteer group. They ultimately determined he was not. That same school board spent the previous month enduring heavy criticism for deciding to rename numerous public schools based on a historically inaccurate Google Doc, claiming acronyms are a “symptom of white supremacy culture” while replacing one acronym with another, and getting sued by the city itself for failing to develop a plan to return kids to school.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Democrats in Virginia have set their sights on the pastor of an elementary school teacher who was recently put on administrative leave for refusing to affirm children’s “transgender identity” because of his Christian faith.
As highlighted by The Daily Wire, Byron “Tanner” Cross, a P.E. teacher at Leesburg Elementary School, told the Loudoun County school board Tuesday “that he will not ‘affirm that a biological boy can be a girl and vice versa’ because he loves children who struggle with gender dysphoria and refuses to lie to them.'”
Cross was swiftly placed on administrative leave.
Cornerstone Chapel Pastor Gary Hamrick spoke out against the school board’s actions during the service Sunday, defending Cross, who is a congregant of the church, and blasting Marxist gender theory as abusive to children.
The Loudoun County Democratic Committee reacted by demanding the pastor “recant” his “[u]nfounded statements” that “not only hurt our community that he is meant to serve but have dangerous ramifications for the incitement of violence.”
During the service, Hamrick called the implementation of the left-wing gender ideology a form of emotional abuse to Loudoun County children and denounced inaction from the church. “To be passive, is to be complicit,” emphasized the pastor.
“The school board — some of them, not all — some of them are not doing their duty to protect, let alone educate our children,” ” Hamrick said. “And they are subjecting them to sexually explicit materials … and they are already talking about introducing racially divisive curriculum, they are emotionally abusing our children by perpetuating the lie about gender confusion when they affirm pronouns that are contrary to biology, reality, and the beautiful design of God. So, they need to be held accountable and it’s time to step up.”
Fellow congregants were also allowed access to petitions calling for the recall of six specific “troublesome” school board members.
The Loudoun County Democratic Committee on Sunday released a statement targeting the pastor and demanding he “recant” his “inflammatory and insidious remarks.”
“The Loudoun County Democratic Committee was extremely disheartened to hear that one of our community’s religious leaders made inflammatory and insidious remarks about several Loudoun elected officials during a service at Cornerstone Chapel this morning,” the statement said. “In his Sunday, May 30th sermon, Pastor Gary Hamrick took to the pulpit to accuse six Loudoun County School Board members of ’emotional child abuse,’ opening his chapel’s atrium to political campaigning, and invoking the name of God to incite political action.”
“We are deeply concerned about the consequences of such rhetoric, having witnessed a recent rise in threats to the safety of the Loudoun School Board members. Furthermore, this irresponsible accusation of child abuse minimizes and tarnishes the people and organizations that seek to protect our children,” the Democrats continued.
“We call on Pastor Gary Hamrick to recant his allegations due to the libelous and inflammatory nature of the remarks. Unfounded statements such as these not only hurt our community that he is meant to serve but have dangerous ramifications for the incitement of violence.”
A portion of Cross’ statement to the school board was also shown to the congregation on Sunday. The Daily Wire reported:
“My name is Tanner Cross and I am speaking out of love for those who are suffering from gender dysphoria,” Cross said during his brief speech, which referenced school district policies demanding Loudoun County Public Schools (LCPS) staff use preferred pronouns and “allow gender-expansive and transgender students to participate in such activities in a manner consistent with the student’s gender identity.” Referring to an explosive “60 Minutes” investigation that aired Sunday about young people regretting their transitions, Cross continued, “’60 Minutes’ this past Sunday interviewed over 30 young people who transitioned but they felt led astray because of lack of pushback or how easy it was to make physical changes to their bodies in just three months. They are now detransitioning.” “It’s not my intention to hurt anyone, but there are certain truths that we must face when ready. We condemn school policies [that] would damage children, defile the holy image of God,” he continued. “I love all of my students but I will never lie to them regardless of the consequences. I’m a teacher but I serve God first and I will not affirm that a biological boy can be a girl and vice versa because it’s against my religion, it’s lying to a child, it’s abuse to a child, and it’s sinning against our God,” Cross concluded.
WATCH (relevant comments begin around the 36-minute mark):
Related: VA Teacher Placed On Administrative Leave After Refusing To Affirm Trans Identity For Kids, Citing Faith
Related: ‘It’s Demonic’: Concerned Mothers Mourn How Trans Movement Is ‘Devouring’ Sons, Find Solace In Secret Online Group
Related: 60 Minutes Runs Explosive Segment Featuring Young Transgender Individuals Who Decided To Reverse Course
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The left-wing organization Black Lives Matter saw its popularity fall from unprecedented heights over the last year, not because Americans learned of its stated marxist agenda or corruption, but because of “increased politicization by elites” in the Republican Party, according to an in-depth profile from the legacy media.
One article in a series The New York Times published on the first anniversary of George Floyd’s death on May 25, complained that “support among white Americans” for BLM as an organization “has proved both fickle and volatile,” which “contradicts the idea that the country underwent a racial reckoning.”
While “there has been a net increase in favorability toward Black Lives Matter since 2018,” it “peaked in the immediate aftermath of George Floyd’s death and then swiftly declined,” especially “among Republicans and white Americans, two large and often overlapping groups.”
The Times later admitted positive views of the BLM organization “did not last long” and “swiftly declined” across every “racial group.” Rather than blame this universal decline on the BLM organization, the Times blamed the GOP.
“The precipitous decline in support … mirrors the increased politicization of the issue by elites,” the article, by Jennifer Chudy and Hakeem Jefferson, continued. “In the days and weeks following Floyd’s death, Republican politicians quickly turned attention away from the actions of a murderous police officer to those individuals protesting the injustice.”
Did Republicans “pounce” on BLM, or did the organization — and the demonstrators protesting on its behalf — show their true colors?
BLM rioters injured police officers in 72% of cities that held BLM protests across the U.S. and Canada, according to the Major Cities Chiefs Association. Looting, arson, and vandalism consumed whole neighborhoods in Minneapolis, Kenosha, Atlanta, and dozens of cities around the world. The property damage cost up to $2 billion and destroyed private churches and businesses. Worst of all, the riots left at least 25 people dead, including retired policeman David Dorn.
Support may have plummeted, too, as BLM’s agenda came to be known. Its “What We Believe” page, which has since been scrubbed, initially claimed that BLM exists to “disrupt the Western-prescribed nuclear family structure.”
Yet in the Times’ telling, this is just part of America’s growing indifference to Black Lives Matter.
The NYT’s article closed by urging leaders to see to it that “support for Black Lives Matter ultimately translates into policy” at the national level, “rather than the changing of hearts and minds” of American voters. It added helpfully that “protests” like the ones mentioned above “can pressure elites to pursue tangible legislative action.”
To that end, “coalition-building” between BLM and “Latinx activists” will “prove essential in counteracting the backlash toward B.L.M. observed among some whites and Republicans.”
The article is one of a series of statements in the left-wing media seeking to change the narrative about BLM’s riots and the resulting property damage this summer. Earlier in the week, New York Times deputy opinion editor Patrick Healy protested on “Morning Joe” that Republican voters only believe “false claims” — like the idea that Black Lives Matter is “Marxist” or that this summer’s protests were violent — because they “live in a Fox News/Newsmax/OAN bubble.”
Their well-coordinated rehabilitation efforts proved poorly timed, as they came just two days before BLM co-founder Patrisse Cullors stepped down from the organization.
Cullors, who admitted BLM’s leaders are “trained Marxists,” had been caught spending more than $3.2 million on lavish homes. She claimed she selflessly scarfed up prime real estate, because “homeownership has always been a way to disrupt white supremacy.”
Meanwhile, the BLM national office admitted to raking in around $90 million last summer, while local affiliates openly complained that few of the funds trickled down to them.
The legacy media tried to downplay the BLM violence engulfing American cities, insisting the protests were “mostly peaceful.” But since the inauguration of the Biden-Harris administration, the media have increasingly tried to justify the violence itself.
“Look, this fighting for democracy and against fascism thing has always been a messy business. And, yes, people get hurt, property gets damaged, and things get confusing,” said W. Kamau Bell in a segment glorifying Antifa on CNN’s “United Shades of America.” The New York Times’ article is just another part of this process.
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.If the New York Knicks defeat the Atlanta Hawks in their first-round series and advance in the playoffs, there won’t be an unvaccinated individual at Madison Square Garden moving forward.
On Friday, the Knicks announced that tickets for games at MSG will only be sold to vaccinated fans if they advance to the second-round of the playoffs.
The New York Knicks today announced that Game 5 of their 2021 NBA playoffs series against the Atlanta Hawks, scheduled for June 5, has sold out. This follows Game 1, when the Knicks welcomed more than 15,000 fans and Game 2, when they expanded their seating for fully-vaccinated fans and increased capacity to more than 16,000. The two games mark the largest indoor crowds to gather in New York since the start of the pandemic. Given the enthusiastic response to vaccination requirements, the team also announced that, should they advance past round one, tickets will be sold exclusively to fully-vaccinated individuals. “The energy our Knicks fans have brought to the playoffs has been incredible — proving there’s nothing more exciting than Knicks basketball at The Garden,” said David Hopkinson, EVP, MSG Sports and President, Team Business Operations. “It’s moments like this that show us what’s possible if everyone gets vaccinated — we’ll all be able to get back to doing what we love — and that definitely includes being together to cheer on the Knicks at Madison Square Garden.”
The Knicks announce that, if they advance to the Eastern Conference semifinals, they will sell tickets in the next round exclusively to fans who are fully vaccinated. pic.twitter.com/fgJ958rOn7 — The Athletic (@TheAthletic) May 28, 2021
According to the statement, fully-vaccinated fans have made up for more than 90% of attendance at the Knicks’ first two playoff games and have been seated in sections that don’t require social distancing and masks. Non-vaccinated fans have been seated in separate socially distanced and masked areas of the arena.
There are currently three ways for fans to “demonstrate they are eligible to attend an event” at Madison Square Garden according to MSG.com.
Proof of vaccination Proof of negative antigen COVID-19 test taken within six hours of the event start time OR Proof of a negative PCR COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours of the day of the event
Madison Square Garden has been rocking in the first playoff games at the arena since 2012, and while it has been a sight for sore eyes, it has come with its fair number of issues.
On Wednesday night, a Knicks fan was banned indefinitely from MSG after it was found that he spit on Atlanta’s star point guard Trae Young. The Knicks put out a statement after the finding:
We investigated the matter and determined that this patron, who is not a season ticket holder, did indeed spit on Trae Young, and for that reason, he is now banned from The Garden indefinitely. We apologize to Trae and the entire Hawks organization for this fan’s behavior. This was completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated in our venue. We have turned the information over to the appropriate authorities.
The spitting incident comes one game after Knicks fans were admonished for their “F*** Trae Young” chants throughout game one. New York basketball fans haven’t had much to cheer about over the past decade, and they’ve been taking full advantage of the opportunity.
Win one playoff game and we don’t know how to act LMFAO pic.twitter.com/bks9pHcyiH — Maggio (@kylemaggio) May 27, 2021
Joe Morgan is the Sports Reporter for The Daily Wire. Most recently, Morgan covered the Clippers, Lakers and the NBA for Sporting News. Send your sports questions to sports@dailywire.com.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Sunday, a senior writer for The New York Times suggested that the mainstream media dismissed the theory espoused by Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton, later championed by former President Trump, that COVID-19 escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, simply because they refused to consider that Cotton, an avowed conservative, might be correct.
New York Times writer David Leonhardt appeared on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” where host Brian Stelter asked, “This week … you wrote about the lab leak theory, and how the conversation about this possible COVID escaping the Wuhan lab theory has been re-evaluated. It’s been reckoned with all of a sudden. What happened this week? Why is this back in the news?”
“Well, so, it’s pretty clear that we don’t know how COVID started,” Leonhardt answered. “Many people think the most likely explanation is that it jumped from an animal to a human being at a food market in Wuhan, China. That is certainly plausible. But it’s also plausible that, with some research at a top virology lab in Wuhan, China, it somehow escaped from there. We don’t know the answer. And what happened was a bunch of people started arguing that it likely escaped from this lab in Wuhan. And some of them were scientists who you’ve never heard of, necessarily, and who made serious arguments. But some of them were conservative politicians like Senator Tom Cotton. And after Cotton started doing it, Donald Trump, when he was president, started doing it.”
“And I think people made this mistake,” Leonhardt admitted. “I think a lot of people on the political left and a lot of people in the media made this mistake. They said, ‘Well, if Tom Cotton is saying something, it can’t be true,’ they assumed that. And that’s not right.”
As far back as January 30, 2020, Cotton theorized that the virus might have come from Wuhan. Speaking at a Senate Armed Services Hearing, he asserted, “I want to talk about the biggest and most important story in the world. The Wuhan coronavirus. This coronavirus is a catastrophe on the scale of Chernobyl for China. But actually, it’s probably worse than Chernobyl, which was localized in its effect. The coronavirus could result in a global pandemic. While you were all sleeping overnight, the number of diagnosed cases in China increased by 30%. Let me be clear: that’s not new cases; that is just newly-admitted cases. It is probably several orders of magnitude higher than that.”
“We still don’t know where coronavirus originated,” Cotton said. “Could have been a market, a farm, a food processing company. I would note that Wuhan has China’s only biosafety level-four super laboratory that works with the world’s most deadly pathogens to include, yes, coronavirus.”
The Wuhan coronavirus is a catastrophe on the scale of Chernobyl for China, only Chernobyl was localized. The coronavirus is spreading worldwide. Last night, confirmed cases increased in China by 30%. The true numbers are likely much higher. pic.twitter.com/oV6zua7sJj — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) January 30, 2020
We still don’t know where coronavirus originated. Could have been a market, a farm, a food processing company. I would note that Wuhan has China’s only biosafety level-four super laboratory that works with the world’s most deadly pathogens to include, yes, coronavirus. pic.twitter.com/CtuU2czBLp — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) January 30, 2020
On February 9, 2020, after China’s ambassador took umbrage, calling Cotton’s suppositions “absolutely crazy” and claiming that the virus was “probably coming from some animals,” Cotton fired back, “Here’s what’s not a conspiracy, not a theory: Fact: China lied about virus starting in Wuhan food market. Fact: super-lab is just a few miles from that market. Where did it start? We don’t know. But burden of proof is on you & fellow communists. Open up now to competent international scientists.”
.@ambcuitianki, here’s what’s not a conspiracy, not a theory: Fact: China lied about virus starting in Wuhan food market https://t.co/Jgpy1Oh75Y — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 9, 2020
Fact: super-lab is just a few miles from that market Where did it start? We don’t know. But burden of proof is on you & fellow communists. Open up now to competent international scientists. — Tom Cotton (@SenTomCotton) February 9, 2020
Roughly a week later, Cotton stated on Fox News’ “Sunday Morning Futures,” “China was lying from the beginning and they’re still lying today. … Here’s what we do know: this virus did not originate in the Wuhan animal market. Epidemiologists who are widely respected from China who have published a study in the international journal the Lancet have demonstrated that several of the original cases did not have any contact with that food market. The virus went into that food market before it came out of that food market. So we don’t know where it originated. But we do know we have to get to the bottom of that. We also know that just a few miles away from that food market is China’s only biosafety level 4 super laboratory that researches human infectious diseases.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Many Americans who claim LGBTQ+ identity observe the month of June as “Pride Month,” participating in marches and heightened activism to tout their various sexual proclivities.
Across America, journalists, politicians, and government institutions — even the CIA — throw themselves into the action. Likewise, corporate America is selling products to meet the public’s demand for virtue signaling.
Here are five “Pride” products carried by American retailers this year.
Pronoun cereal — Kellogg
No rousing breakfast is complete without the contemplation of one’s gender identity.
In partnership with GLAAD — a group that “tackles tough issues to shape the narrative and provoke dialogue that leads to cultural change” — Kellogg’s launched a limited edition “Together With Pride” cereal, which comes in a box emblazoned with various pronoun options.
In addition to the obligatory “he/him,” “she/her,” and “they/them” pronouns, the box encourages young consumers to get creative with two “add your own” options.
According to a company press release, the cereal will feature “berry-flavored, rainbow hearts dusted with edible glitter.”
Friend sent this to me. I had know idea that Tony the Tiger and the Toucan Sam were dating… pic.twitter.com/FMNS8FBoui — Dave Rubin (@RubinReport) May 24, 2021
“Kellogg has a long-standing commitment to Equity, Diversity & Inclusion to our employees, our consumers and communities,” explained Vice President of Talent and Diversity Priscilla Koranteng. “New Together With Pride cereal is our latest effort aligned with our purpose to create better days and a place at the table for everyone.”
The agriculture conglomerate outdid itself in its twenty-first-century-style pandering by inviting fans to join their “#BoxesAreForCerealChallenge” on TikTok. With every uploaded receipt, Kellogg’s will donate $3 to GLAAD’s work in “accelerating acceptance” for the LGBTQ+ community.
Rainbow pride figurines — LEGO
Proclaiming that “Everyone Is Awesome,” one iconic toymaker is releasing an LGBTQ toy set.
LEGO recently unveiled a set of eleven monochromatic figurines designed to stand on a rainbow-colored platform. In addition to the six colors of the rainbow, the set includes black and brown to represent ethnic minority groups, as well as light blue, white, and pink to represent the colors of the transgender flag.
According to a company press release, set designer Matthew Ashton “wanted to create a model that symbolises inclusivity and celebrates everyone, no matter how they identify or who they love.”
“Everyone is unique, and with a little more love, acceptance and understanding in the world, we can all feel more free to be our true AWESOME selves!” he added. “This model shows that we care, and that we truly believe ‘Everyone is awesome’!”
Rainbow cat house — Target
Featuring the slogan “Love is Love,” Target is selling a “Double Decker Pride Scratch House” incorporating two scratch pads and a cat cave lined with rainbow decorations.
“Love is love, and nothing could be truer,” reads the product’s description. “You can spread the message and bring home a cove that will drive your feline friend head over heels with the Double Decker Pride Cat Scratch House by Boots & Barkley… Your pet is sure to love it, and it’s one small way to show your support when every bit counts.”
Evidently, no employee at either Boots & Barkley or Target has ever met a cat, which is perhaps the creature most opposed to “love” to ever walk the earth.
LGBT-wich — Marks and Spencer
English retailer Marks and Spencer is selling a Pride-themed BLT… er, LGBT. No, really.
As the company’s site tells activists, their “Lettuce, Guacamole, Bacon and Tomato” sandwich is perfect to eat “on your way to Pride this year.”
Following its original launch two years ago, Pink News reported that the snack stirred controversy on social media.
“Equating us to a sandwich?” fumed a social media user. “I can’t imagine them doing this with other marginalised groups.”
“€4.50 for a blt with guac? I guess they’re hoping gays really have expensive taste,” remarked another.
Even worse, the sandwich set off the vegan subset of the LGBTQ+ community, who were disturbed by Marks and Spencer’s failure to take into account the full array of their identities. One commenter noted that the brand was “throwing the entire lesbian community under the bus [with] the bacon.”
Taste the rainbow — Listerine
Are your dental hygiene products not woke enough? Luckily, Listerine has the solution — literally.
The brand’s “Care with Pride” mouthwash — which is carried by Walmart and other retailers — transcends treating one’s “bad breath, plaque, and gingivitis.” It serves as a great tool to show LGBTQ+ devotion to anyone who happens into your restroom.
Unfortunately, the mouthwash is “leaving a bad taste” in some activists’ mouths. One journalist proclaims that “nothing says performative allyship like a rainbow-colored bottle of mouthwash!”
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.As President Joe Biden stumped in Ohio for his massive $6 trillion budget proposal on Thursday, he made a veiled, if perplexing, threat: If the nation doesn’t enact a sweeping plan like the one outlined in his budget, America’s hospitals will be filled to overflowing with patients suffering from Alzheimer’s Disease.
“If we do not do something about Alzheimer’s in America, every single, solitary hospital bed that exists in America — as the nurses can tell you — every single one will be occupied in the next 15 years with an Alzheimer’s patient,” Biden told a crowd at Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland. “Every. One. Costing us in excess of a trillion dollars.”
.@POTUS spotlights the looming human and economic impact of #Alzheimers disease in the absence of innovative treatments and therapies. #15years pic.twitter.com/bGXbs6aZkV — UsAgainstAlzheimer's (@UsAgainstAlz) May 27, 2021
It’s not the first time he’s made the claim — and his comments this week contradict Biden’s claims the last time he made such a charge.
In the homestretch of the 2020 presidential campaign last October, the mask-adorned Democratic candidate told a crowd of senior citizens in Pembroke Pines, Florida:
If we do not — and no drug company has the capacity to do it—If we do not find an answer to Alzheimer’s within the next 19 years, every single, solitary bed that exists in the United States of America now will be occupied by an Alzheimer’s patient.
Under that math, America lost four years in just seven months. No media outlet highlighted the self-refuting nature of Biden’s comments.
It’s not clear what data may, or may not, underlie these competing claims. President Biden offered no proof for his assertion — and the media asked for none, nor did they report that Biden made his statements “without proof,” as they so often did to his predecessor.
There are 919,559 staffed beds in all of the United States, according to the American Hospital Association. There are currently 6.2 million Alzheimer’s in the United States, according to the Alzheimer’s Association.
Even assuming a massive growth in the number of Americans who suffer from the tragedy of Alzheimer’s Disease, Biden’s estimate assumes the United States won’t open any new nursing homes or hospitals over the next 15 years, a highly improbable notion given the nation’s graying population.
Instead of asking for clarification, the media mostly ignored the remark while highlighting instead that Biden’s enormous budget contains new spending to fight the dementia-inducing disease.
USA Today reported that Biden’s budget contains “a pioneer breakthrough that we hope we can detect and treat, prevent diseases like Alzheimer’s and diabetes, and give us a chance to end cancer as we know it, because we’ll focus exclusively on those items.” CNN added that the budget includes “$6.5 billion to launch the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), a new program aimed at driving innovation in health research that will focus initially on diseases like cancer, diabetes and Alzheimer’s.”
That makes up approximately 0.1% of Biden’s $6 trillion proposed budget.
The few times reporters have referenced Biden’s ill-defined comments, they have done so to prove Biden is a forward-thinking health policy wonk.
In February, Maria Shriver wrote that “President Biden understands the scope of this slow-moving pandemic, the opportunity, and the consequences of failing to seize the moment.” After quoting his statement to the crowd in Florida, she noted accurately that “[t]he fact is that Alzheimer’s is already our country’s most expensive disease, and continuing to manage it is more costly than developing a cure.”
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.In April 2015, Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors told an audience at Harvard Law School that they should “end the imperialist project that’s called Israel.”
Speaking on a panel hosted by the Human Rights Program at Harvard, entitled “Globalizing Ferguson: Radicalized Policing and International Resistance,” Cullors stated:
I am also the co-founder of Black Lives Matter … What I will say, what’s important, I think, in this conversation around trans-national solidarity is that it’s simple. We should be building relationships with people across the world. If we believe we are part of the human family, then we need to push ourselves in particular ways to see the connections always. The other thing I’ll say is Palestine is our generation’s South Africa, and if we don’t step up boldly and courageously to end the imperialist project that’s called Israel, we’re doomed.
Cullors then referenced the recent trip she had made with a group called “Dream Defenders” to Israel, claiming, “Nothing would’ve prepared me for the level of militarization and the level of violence that we would witness”:
And I think that I had learned about Palestine for a long time, I’d known about it, been wanting to travel, and I was really, really grateful when the Dream Defenders asked me to come on the delegation. But nothing would’ve prepared me for the level of militarization and the level of violence that we would witness those ten days inside of Palestine. Nothing would have prepared me for the ways in which we witnessed people’s terror. People live in terror on a daily basis. And nothing would have prepared me for how much clarity I would have on why we have to be a part of Palestinian solidarity.
Cullors made no reference to the terrorist attacks that have targeted Israel for decades, including the Second Intifada, during which over 1100 Israelis were murdered, as reported here.
As CAMERA reported in 2020: Dream Defenders was a BLM-affiliated group that brought black activists to meet BDS (Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions) co-founder Omar Barghouti and other radical anti-Israel activists. CAMERA noted of Dream Defenders:
One of the co-founders of the group was a Palestinian-American activist by the name of Ahmad Abuznaid whose own focus was to create a nexus between Palestinian grievances and those of African Americans and to link the emerging BLM movement with BDS. … By December 2014, Ahmad Abuznaid stepped up his efforts by recruiting prominent black activists to join a “Delegation to Palestine,” the goal of which, he stated, was: “to allow for the group members to experience and see first-hand the occupation, ethnic cleansing and brutality Israel has levied against Palestinians, but also to build real relationships with those on the ground leading the fight for liberation.”
During the December 2014 trip, CAMERA reported, “Cullors organized a flashmob calling for BDS, performed by activists and leaders of various groups that view themselves as part of the BLM movement (including Tef Poe, Phillip Agnew aka Umi Selah, Aja Monet, the journalist Marc Lamont Hill, and others). They publicized a video they made of their BDS flashmob online.”
Cullors, who declared in the 2014 video that “We are going to have a flashmob,” continued during the 2015 panel:
We can have a whole conversation about the settlements that we witnessed, the stories of murder and death at the hands of Israelis and Zionists, and I think the biggest piece, for me, coming back home, was what do we do here, right? What’s our work look like here, in relationship to Palestine? And what does the Black Lives Matter movement have to do with Palestine? I know a lot of people ask that. A lot of black people asked that while we were there, right?
We had great responses, people were super-excited, and then we also had black people being like, “Why aren’t you home?” I think like there’s like this deep gap in the black community specifically among black Americans, because we can’t assume all black people in the United States are American. There’s a gap that we must deal with our issues at home, as if our issues at home have nothing to do with issues abroad. And so we understood that coming back we had to do a lot of education about why we chose to make this trip, why it was important to us and why it was actually crucial to this conversation around the Black Lives Matter movement. When we talk about militarization, when we talk about the ways in which the U.S. government funds, literally funds the state of Israel, we’re complicit in that unless we’re fighting it actively, unless we’re making those connections here inside of this country. And so it was an honor to go on that trip and being back home, a lot of us, we’ve been talking to colleges and high schools, talking about our trip.
Then Cullors segued to the terrorist Rasmeah Odeh.
Two things I think people should really be thinking about in relationship to the state of Israel and Palestinian solidarity: One is BDS, boycott, divestment, sanction, so if folks aren’t on that tip, please Google it, super-simple, it’s a great website, and the second is Rasmea Odeh’s case. Rasmea lives in Chicago, and it’s a very long story, but essentially the U.S. government is trying to deport her back to Israel, where she was tortured as a prisoner inside of Israel. And so I would really push this audience, whether it’s the law school or students to develop some sort of Rasmea Odeh solidarity team to really, I think this summer, we need to, like get on it as a team. The media has essentially iced out everybody from talking about her case and so we have our own media, it’s called social media. I think we need to be diligent about uplifting her case.
The Daily Wire noted in a story about Odeh being one of the organizers of the 2017 Women’s March:
[Odeh] bombed a supermarket in Jerusalem in 1969, killing two Hebrew university students, Leon Kanner, 21, and Edward Joffe, 22, who were grocery shopping … Nine other people were injured in the explosion. Rasmea Odeh … spent ten years in prison, then lied to become a U.S. citizen in 2004. On Nov. 10, 2014, a federal jury in Detroit pronounced her guilty for illegally procuring naturalization by falsely answering questions as to whether she “EVER” had been convicted or imprisoned. After she was convicted of immigration fraud three years ago, Odeh got a new trial claiming PTSD caused her to lie. In addition, she is an alleged former member of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a designated terrorist group, and was convicted for her role in the bombing of a British consulate. … an observer from the International Red Cross was present for her entire six-month Israeli trial, and stated afterward that the Israeli military court “had given the accused every chance of defending themselves, and the trial was – in his opinion – a fair trial.”
For a comprehensive look at the background of the bombing, its aftermath, and the facts countering the claims of Odeh’s supporters, see here.
This context was left out of Cullors’ comments, as was any mention of the murders of Israelis by Palestinians in the so-called “settlements” located in Judea and Samaria, such as the Fogel family, which was brutally slaughtered in their home in 2012 by two Palestinian terrorists, including the decapitation of a three-month-old infant.
Udi Fogel (age 36)
Ruth Fogel (age 35)
Yoav (age 11)
Elad (age 4)
Hadas (3 months)#OnThisDay 7 years ago, the #Fogel family was brutally massacred by two Palestinian terrorists in Itamar, #Israel, as they slept in their home. May their beautiful memories always be blessed! 🕯️ pic.twitter.com/hmVTS90SRT — Arsen Ostrovsky (@Ostrov_A) March 11, 2019
Watch Cullors’ comments below:
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The nation experienced a resurgence of violence in the last year, fueling Republicans’ chances of reclaiming its majority in Congress in 2022, according to an analyst on CNN.
“Republicans can turn rising crime into a culture war wedge issue,” said John Avlon Thursday on “New Day,” CNN’s morning show. “And as we turn the corner into summer, which is usual increase in violence crime, public safety is again front and center in people’s minds after decades of declines.”
“Democrats are going to have to deal with it or risk political backlash,” said Avlon, who hosts the show’s “Reality Check” feature.
Avlon covered something the media regularly ignore: The fact that law-abiding people have increasingly become targets in their streets, their communities, and their own homes — and so have law enforcement officers.
“Major American cities saw a stunning 33 percent increase in murder last year,” he said. He asked viewers to contrast that “with the steep and then steady murder decline America saw between 1991 and 2014.”
The violence is far from over, he warned. “The spike in homicides and assaults continued in the first quarter of this year. Not only that, the number of police officers who have been shot in the line of duty stand at 141 as of May 16, and 24 officer fatalities this year is the most year to date since 2018.”
That merely scratches the surface of America’s intensifying war with itself. National Public Radio recently reported:
At the end of 2020, Chicago police reported more than 750 murders, a jump of more than 50% compared with 2019. By mid-December, Los Angeles saw a 30% increase over the previous year with 322 homicides. There were 437 homicides in New York City by Dec. 20, nearly 40% more than the previous year.
Avlon told his viewers, “You’d be forgiven for asking, what the hell is going on here?”
He blamed a “perfect storm” of factors, including “the prevalence of guns” but also economic contractions brought on by the COVID-19 lockdowns that have lingered into this year in some areas. He also cited “the release of criminal defendants due to COVID concerns in jail” — although many of these were not “defendants” but prisoners with records of such crimes as sexual offenses and murder.
Avlon also blamed expanded crime on “the overall reallocation of police resources,” that is, defunding the police.
“Los Angeles recently changed course after cutting its police department by $150 million last July,” he said. “Now its mayor is proposing increased funding after a 38 percent spike in murders last year.”
He did not mention the riots associated with “mostly peaceful protests” held by Black Lives Matter, which may have inflicted $2 billion in property damage and claimed dozens of lives, including retired African American policeman David Dorn.
Avlon’s report itself could have made history as one of CNN’s rare references to violence, aside from its perpetual focus on the 100-year-old Tulsa Massacre.
This week, Fox News host Tucker Carlson highlighted the spike in violence which began last May, but he dismissed the notion that COVID-19 accounted for it. He noted that crime fell in nations around the world, including Canada, the U.K., Sweden, and Russia.
“Even in Mexico, there were fewer homicides in 2020 than there were in 2019. So, for normal countries — pretty much all countries — the pandemic meant more Netflix, but less killing,” he said on Thursday night.
“Not here. In the United States, the opposite happened,” he said. “A lot of Netflix, even more killing.”
He said the difference is that, in the U.S., “… the Democratic Party took full control of the country, and their policies resulted in a huge number of killings.”
Avlon may be the only person situated to point out these uncomfortable facts on CNN. Avlon, a centrist who helped launch the “No Labels” movement, previously served as former speechwriter and policy adviser to former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.
Giuliani’s famously tough-on-crime policies caused crime to fall in New York City after years of increase under Democratic Mayor David Dinkins.
“New York City has been transformed from the nation’s crime capital to the safest large city in the United States. As a result, New Yorkers in every neighborhood feel safer in their homes and in their communities,” said Giuliani in 1998.
Murders fell by 60% during Giuliani’s tenure in office, 1993 to 2001.
His son, Andrew, has announced he is running for governor of New York against incumbent Andrew Cuomo.
This article has been revised to specify that Avlon’s comments were made on Thursday.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Joe Biden has always had a plagiarism problem. Now, he can’t stop stealing the words of one of history’s greatest monsters: Chinese Communist dictator Mao Tse-tung.
Over the last year, Biden has repeatedly quoted the same phrase in numerous contexts without crediting Mao — and the legacy media have had nothing to say about it.
The most recent example of Biden’s Mao reference came at the 140th commencement of the U.S. Coast Guard on May 19, moments after botching a quotation he stole from Ronald Reagan. While alternating between boring and insulting the graduates, Biden told the graduates:
We need to see more women at the highest levels of command. We have to make sure that women have the chance to succeed and th- — thrive throughout their careers. There’s a saying that we use in a different context — a Chinese saying that says, “Women hold up half the world.” It’s an absolutely stupid position not to make sure they represent at least half of what we do.
The “Chinese saying” came from the lips of Mao Tse-tung, whose policies and actions killed at least 45 million people during the “Great Leap Forward” from 1958 to 1962. The remark was reported by Chinese media on March 8, 1973, as:
Times have changed, and men and women are equal, Whatever men comrades can accomplish, women comrades can, too. Women hold up half the sky.
That quotation made an impression on Biden, or his speechwriter, who has included it in the president’s prepared addresses several times.
Biden, whose first presidential campaign 33 years ago derailed over plagiarizing British Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock and exaggerating his academic accomplishments, parroted the Mao quote to deep-pocketed donors at a fundraiser in July 2020, as The Daily Wire reported:
“For the first time, an economic crisis is hitting industries dominated by women,” Biden said, flanked by former senior Obama administration advisor Valerie Jarrett, the former vice president’s special guest at the digital fundraiser. “We’ve got to get real economic relief into women’s hands now.” He then quoted what he called an “old Chinese proverb” about women. “Women hold up half the sky,” Biden said.
A month later, on August 21, he explained why he chose his vice presidential running mate, Kamala Harris, during the ticket’s first joint press conference with Robin Roberts of “Good Morning America”:
The government should look like the people, look like the country. Fifty one percent of the people in this country are women. As that old expression goes, women hold up half the sky, and in order to be able to succeed, you’ve got to be dealt in across the board.
Mao Tse-tung was history’s most prolific murderer, subjecting the world’s largest nation to a life of economic destitution and political slavery. Why would the president quote him? Why would the media say nothing about the quotation’s revolting origins?
Compare that to the media outrage when President Donald Trump quoted someone who piques the media’s ire, like a conservative columnist.
In January 2019, then-President Trump tweeted a few quotations from a column by Pat Buchanan on border security, and the media pounced.
“Trump tweets op-ed by Pat Buchanan, whom he derided as a ‘Hitler lover’ in 1999,” wrote USA Today.
“Trump cites Pat Buchanan, man he once called ‘Hitler lover,’ to support border wall,” said The Hill.
“Trump Quotes ‘Hitler Lover’ In Latest Attempt To Push His Border Wall Plan,” read the cranky headline at HuffPost.
Not content to draw attention to the quotation, The Washington Post’s Philip Bump dedicated an entire column to dissecting “the multilevel irony” of the moment.
The media treated Buchanan, an advisor to three presidents and a three-time presidential candidate who has sometimes said things considered intemperate, as though he were a tyrant on the order of … Mao Tse-tung.
Yet when Biden quotes the bloodiest despot in history, the legacy media either do not know or keep the secret to themselves. There appears to have been no coverage from USA Today, The Hill, and HuffPost — nor ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, The Washington Post, or The New York Times, for that matter.
Nor can they all plead ignorance. The New York Times quoted Biden’s favorite phrase of Mao’s favorably in a September 2017 story called, “For all its flaws, the Communist revolution taught Chinese women to dream big.”
Mao didn’t simply “dream big”; he accomplished “big” things — enormously evil actions on a scale never matched before or since. Perhaps the leader of the free world should be discouraged from looking at his writings as a source of wisdom.
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A sitting U.S. congressman says the Democratic Party is “relying” on the legacy media not to report on the exploding human rights catastrophe at the U.S. border with Mexico, an issue that undermines President Joe Biden’s standing with voters more than any other.
“The Democrats think that we’re going to stop talking about this, because they’re going to get the press to stop talking about it, and that’s really what’s going on right now,” Rep. Ronny Jackson (R-TX) told Fox News on May 22. “They’re relying on the mainstream media to not talk about it any more, and they think if they don’t talk about it, it will go away.”
The administration has taken pains to fend off the issue by branding the crisis as merely a “challenge,” bottling up the release of photos or videos from inside U.S. detention facilities, and avoiding anything that would generate press coverage of this lingering sore spot.
Vice President Kamala Harris, whom President Biden has named to oversee the immigration crisis, has refused to visit the area two months after taking ownership of the issue portfolio.
Congressman Jackson said the vice president has stayed away from the Rio Grande “because the border is a disaster and she doesn’t want to be associated with it, either. From day one, she wants nothing to do with the border.”
Neither, apparently, do the media. After years of focusing on “kids in cages,” the legacy media have suddenly turned a blind eye to historic surges in illegal immigration to the United States, and the Border Patrol/Homeland Security response to them — even though 43% of Americans told the Pew Research Center the media have not spent enough time covering immigration.
A whopping 68% of Americans — including 39% of Democrats — say the Biden-Harris administration is doing a “very” or “somewhat bad” job handling illegal immigration, according to Pew.
But the PR disaster is the least dangerous one on the border.
April saw more illegal immigrants entering the United States through the Southern border than any time in the last 21 years. “In all, CBP encountered 178,622 people attempting to enter the United States, a three percent increase from March, and the most encounters in a single month since April of 2000, when 182,613 illegal immigrants were apprehended,” reported the New York Post.
“We’re overwhelmed,” says the Texas congressman. “We have 170,000 that we know crossed the border,” he continued. “March was a record year, as well.”
Rep. Jackson highlighted the looming consequences of uncontrolled, illegal immigration. “This is a huge burden for our country economically. It’s going to be a health care crisis for us, it’s going to be a criminal and terrorism crisis for us. … We have record numbers of heroin, methamphetamine, cocaine, fentanyl crossing the border.”
U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents have already seized 6,494 pounds of fentanyl at the Southern border in the first four months of 2021 — more than 4,776 pounds found in all of 2020. Border agents have found 105,032 pounds of methamphetamine in 2021, compared to a little more than 177,000 pounds last year.
Despite the undeniable severity of the problem, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki has argued that “a big driver” of those negative impressions is certain, unspecified “components of social media and media these days.”
Yet border Democrats including Senators Kyrsten Sinema, Mark Kelly, and Rep. Henry Cuellar have called the unfolding immigration issue a “crisis.”
Rep. Jackson agreed that instead of counting on a media blackout until things get better (or the administration ends), Harris needs to be part of the solution.
“She needs to get down there and they need to stop this,” Jackson added.
This week Rep. Chip Roy (R-TX) challenged Biden or Harris to a public debate on the issue of border enforcement.
Even if they take Roy up on his offer, don’t count on the media to cover it.
This article has been revised to specify that Jackson’s comments were made on May 22.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.I recently saw a new recruitment advertisement for the U.S. Army. It was in what appeared to be a sort of Japanese anime format. As a former military man, my reaction to this cartoon ran the gamut from bewilderment to horror.
The Army named the animation “The Calling,” and it is about joining one of the most serious and deadly organizations on earth. It is a fanciful (what the Army calls “emotional” and “relatable”) story of a girl who somehow ends up in uniform and manning Patriot missiles. Let me be clear, having women in the military doesn’t bother me. When I was a helicopter pilot for the U.S. Navy in the early 1980s, we were on the cusp of one of the military’s new “social engineering” missions. We had a new breed of naval aviator — women who, for the first time, were allowed in combat squadrons. We had complete faith and confidence in their abilities. This is not about that. This is about how the military is undermining its mission by drastically escalating these social engineering programs.
To continue about the cartoon ad, it shows a young girl who had a “typical childhood.” She was raised by two mothers and marched for social justice. We see a snippet of her parents’ same-sex marriage and then she heads off to UC Davis.
Odd, I don’t remember many women who fit this left-wing-activist-marcher-turned-soldier mold joining the military when I served. The women who wore the uniform in my day were no-nonsense and tough. And why was that? Because they knew they were in the military… and they understood that such an organization’s primary mission is to kill the enemy and destroy its infrastructure.
I think what bothers me the most about this ad are the reasons the narrator, who turns out to be a corporal named Emma, joined the armed services. “I needed my own adventures. My own challenge.” The Army was for her a way to “discover my inner strength, and maybe shatter a few stereotypes along the way.” In other words, she saw joining the military as a wholly self-centered act. This entire ad is all about her.
But wearing the uniform is not about the person in the mirror. Rather it is about, indeed it demands, self-sacrifice and surrendering yourself to a higher calling. Back in my day, we all knew why we joined up. It was a pretty simple reason — To serve our country.
What struck me about this animated ad is that nowhere in its one minute and 40 seconds are the words “service” or “duty” or “honor” or “country” or “patriotism” anywhere to be found. Has the narcissism of this “selfie generation” seeped into my beloved military as well? If this recruitment angle is any indication, I fear it has.
As I alluded to earlier, what this advertisement misses, despite its use of patriot missiles to get the viewer’s attention, is that there is but one function of the United States’ armed forces. That is to deal death and destruction to our enemies should they threaten our national interests or existence. Period. All the rest — the “woke” gobbledygook, the personal empowerment, the enlightenment, the social justice agreeance, etc. — are subordinate to that primary objective. I do not want a self-actualizing gender studies major in my unit, as there are no “safe spaces” on a battlefield. I want a razor-sharp warrior, a killer, next to me as we go into combat. Someone that the enemy will take one look at and think, “Maybe this isn’t such a good idea.”
I am a second-generation military man. My father was a Marine who saw some of the heaviest fighting one can imagine in Korea. He came home wounded by a Chinese mortar fragment and earned the Purple Heart. He said when the bullets start flying and the enemy comes charging there is only one rule that matters: “Get, or get got.” He was one of the toughest men I have ever known. The personification of the expression: “Free people sleep peaceably in their beds because rough men stand ready to do violence on their behalf.” That is what the military has always been about to me.
I can tell you that many still on active duty with whom I am in touch on a regular basis have confided to me that this radical social experimentation in our armed services is causing the best and brightest to not re-enlist. I wonder down the road who will be left to guard this great country? What will motivate them to serve? “Discovering inner strength or shattering stereotypes” are alluring notions to faculty lounges and even the upper echelons of the Department of Defense it appears, but they mean nothing to an inadequately trained social justice warrior coming home in a body bag.
I try to imagine a council of Chinese, Russian, or even Iranian generals viewing this ad. What does this say to them about the prowess of their enemy? I certainly know what I would be thinking. A U.S. military that could produce this solipsistic appeal to fill the ranks is certainly not made of the same iron that crossed the Delaware River in a blizzard, held the line with clubbed rifles and bayonets at Gettysburg, or raised the American flag atop Mount Suribachi on Iwo Jima. I would conclude that, as with so much else in its debauched culture, the once awe-inspiring American military machine has been so weakened by its obsession with a new leftist “woke” ideology that it is decaying from within. The take-away would be simple. We have nothing to fear from these people.
When that happens, we will have lost something we can’t get back. Not without a serious re-examination of just what the military in which I proudly served is all about. It takes many generations to build up a great armed forces. It only takes one misguided movement so completely incompatible with its mission to tear it down.
Ominously, if history is any guide, a weakened United States begets a more dangerous world. If we continue down this dissonant path of jamming the square peg of fashionable “wokeness” into the round hole of the primary objective of a military, which is to apply violence to win wars, I am afraid the next time our troops find themselves on the firing line — and they will — the flag and coffin makers will be working overtime.
Brian Schaeffer served as a Naval aviator until his honorable discharge in 1985 with the rank of Lieutenant. Lt. Schaeffer has been in both the shipping business and involved in real estate ever since re-entering civilian life. Prior to heading off to Aviation Reserve Officers Corps, he graduated with honors from Indiana University, Bloomington.
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Actress Tracee Ellis Ross, who plays Rainbow Johnson on the TV show “Black-ish,” said that women are often brainwashed by society into wanting marriage and kids.
Speaking with Marie Claire, Ross said that even though she might “love” having a husband and children, she is happy being single with no kids.
“Well, how could you not?” Ross said with regard to wanting to have a family. “Our society spoon-feeds it to you. I used to put myself to sleep dreaming of my wedding. And I would still love all of that, but what am I going to do, just sit around waiting? Shut up. I’ve got so many things to do.”
As HuffPost noted, Ross decried society’s expectations of women while speaking at Glamour’s 2017 Women of the Year event.
“So it is really interesting to be a woman and to get to 45 and to not be married yet and to not have kids,” she said.
“My life is mine,” she continued. “Those words, like, stopped me in my tracks. And, honestly, they brought tears to my eyes. It seems so obvious, but, obviously, it wasn’t, because I have not been living my life as if it was my own.”
In 2017, Tracee Ellis Ross praised the abortion conglomerate Planned Parenthood for performing “needed, important, and wonderful work.”
“I would like to toast to Planned Parenthood [and] their needed, important and wonderful work,” Ross said at the Moet & Chandon for Toast for a Cause. “May it continue to be supported and continue to do the work that it does.”
“I believe that every women, and everyone, should have access to health care that keeps them safe [and] that there should be a place where they feel safe enough to ask the questions that they have,” she continued. “People should continue to get screened in the way that they need to for pap smears and mammograms. Not everybody has access to that health care and Planned Parenthood is one of the places where women especially are supported in that way and I will do everything in my power to continue to support them as an organization.”
The concept of society’s expectations on women having families was recently addressed by famed feminist Jill Filipovic, who previously said on Mother’s Day that she wanted to hear from more parents who regret either having children too early, having too many kids, or having kids at all.
“I would really love to read more essays and op/eds from women (and men, too) who regret having children as early as they did, regret having as many as they did, or regret having children at all. There’s not much about motherhood that remains publicly unexplored, but that does,” she tweeted.
“Well the total meltdown in response to ‘it would be good to talk more about a real but extremely taboo part of adult life’ pretty well illustrates why virtually no one talks about it. But it is wild to see such insane reactions to ‘hey maybe we should talk about this,’” she later added. “‘Women should stay silent about their complicated experience’ is certainly a view, but probably not one YOU should expect a feminist writer to have.”
Related: Feminist Jill Filipovic On Mother’s Day: I Want To Hear More Men And Women Who ‘Regret Having Children At All’
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.In the wake of U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s secret wedding at a Catholic Church, Father James Martin, a liberal prelate, used the moment to push for the blessing of same-sex unions within the church.
As The Daily Wire reported, Johnson married his fiancée Saturday afternoon after keeping it secret from even his top aides. The wedding reportedly happened in a Catholic ceremony at Westminister Cathedral. Given that Johnson is a twice-divorced man who fathered a child out of wedlock with his fiancée, Martin argued that same-sex couples deserve to have their unions blessed in the church.
“Boris Johnson, a twice-divorced man, whose girlfriend recently had a baby with him out of wedlock (and who also has another child out of wedlock) was married in a Catholic ceremony in Westminster Cathedral, the seat of English Catholicism,” he tweeted. “At the same time, a same-sex couple, who are both Catholics (unlike Mr. Johnson, who was confirmed as an Anglican) cannot have their civil union blessed even in private by a priest because ‘God does not and cannot bless sin.'”
“Mr. and Mrs. Johnson were married within the rules of the Catholic Church. And I wish them well. I also wish that the same mercy and compassion that was offered to them, recognizing their complex lives, could also be extended to same-sex couples who are lifelong Catholics,” he added.
Mr. and Mrs. Johnson were married within the rules of the Catholic Church. And I wish them well. I also wish that the same mercy and compassion that was offered to them, recognizing their complex lives, could also be extended to same-sex couples who are lifelong Catholics. — James Martin, SJ (@JamesMartinSJ) May 30, 2021
Martin was possibly taking a shot at a recent Vatican decree, allegedly approved by Pope Francis, barring priests from blessing same-sex unions in private or public.
“The presence in such relationships of positive elements, which are in themselves to be valued and appreciated, cannot justify these relationships and render them legitimate objects of an ecclesial blessing, since the positive elements exist within the context of a union not ordered to the Creator’s plan,” said the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF).
In an interview with Mexican broadcaster Televisa in 2019, Francis said that homosexual couples have the right to be in a family and that they should be legally covered by civil law.
“Homosexual people have the right to be in a family. They are children of God,” he said.
Regarding families with gay children, the Holy Father also said, “You can’t kick someone out of a family, nor make their life miserable for this. What we have to have is a civil union law; that way they are legally covered.”
Though Martin has positioned himself as an LGBT-friendly priest, he has always maintained he agrees with Catholic teaching on homosexual acts while simply calling for more compassion for such individuals. In October of 2019, however, that facade appeared to drop when he tweeted an article from the Protestant Scripture scholar and theologian Walter Wink, which said that the Bible’s condemnation of homosexual acts should be questioned due to the Bible’s alleged endorsement of slavery. Martin even used the words “interesting” in reference to the passage.
“Interesting: ‘Where the Bible mentions [same-sex sexual] behavior at all, it clearly condemns it. I freely grant that. The issue is precisely whether the biblical judgment is correct. The Bible sanctioned slavery as well and nowhere attacked it as unjust,’” he tweeted. “‘Are we prepared to argue today that slavery is biblically justified?’”
Related: Vatican Bans Gay Union Blessing, Says God ‘Cannot Bless Sin’
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Comedian Ricky Gervais said he is both “shocked and appalled” to learn that one of his frequent collaborators, producer Charlie Hanson, has been accused of sexual misconduct by several women.
“I am shocked and appalled to learn of the historical allegations made by a number of women against Charlie Hanson. The decision was made to immediately remove him from production and I am confident the matter is being handled thoroughly,” Gervais said.
Prior to “After Life,” Hanson previously collaborated with Gervais on “Extras,” “Derek,” “Cemetery Injunction,” and “Life’s Too Short.”
According to TheWrap, an anonymous email sent to Netflix and BAFTA alleged that Hanson, a producer on the Netflix show “After Life,” had a history of sexual misconduct. Hanson’s name was withheld until the U.K.’s The Times reported on it.
“Charlie Hanson is a predator who uses his reputation, connections, and standing in order to groom far younger, impressionable and sometimes vulnerable women into trusting him,” one woman wrote in the email.
“At times he will promise them a starry career under his wing, and then exploits that trust in creepy and illegal ways,” the email continued. “He then tries to diminish the seriousness of what he’s done by telling these young women — us — that it wasn’t as bad as it seemed, that it was somehow blameless. He does his best to convince himself — and others — that this method of operating is fine. But we know it is not fine.”
Hanson denied all the charges against him in a statement through his attorney.
“I have not had one complaint in decades of work in the media industry. I categorically reject any wrongdoing on my part, and strongly refute the allegations that have been levelled at me,” he said. “I have worked with and supported hundreds of men and women during my working life and will do what is necessary to protect and/or restore my reputation. I will also cooperate with any formal inquiries. The matter is now in the hands of my solicitors.”
Though an admitted liberal, Ricky Gervais became a favorite of conservatives in the early days of 2020 when he publicly roasted liberal Hollywood for posturing woke while allegedly being total degenerates in their private lives, from friendships with pedophile Jeffrey Epstein to shady business deals with communist China.
“If you do win an award tonight, don’t use it as a political platform to make a political speech,” Gervais famously told the crowd. “You’re in no position to lecture the public about anything, you know nothing about the real world. Most of you spent less time in school than Greta Thunberg. So, if you win, come up, accept your little award, thank your agent and your God — and f*** off, okay?”
Gervais simultaneously roasted corporations like Apple and Amazon for producing supposedly “woke” creative content while doing business in authoritarian countries like China.
“Apple roared into the TV game with ‘The Morning Show,’ a superb drama about the importance of dignity and doing the right thing — made by a company that runs sweatshops in China,” Gervais said. “Well, you say you’re woke but the companies you work for in China — unbelievable. Apple, Amazon, Disney. If ISIS started a streaming service you’d call your agent, wouldn’t you?”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Several U.S. lawmakers introduced a bill late last week to ban the federal government from being able to fly divisive Black Lives Matter flags at U.S. embassies overseas, which comes after the Biden administration recently issued a directive authorizing the embassies to do just that.
Foreign Policy reported on Tuesday:
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has authorized U.S. embassies around the world to fly Black Lives Matter (BLM) flags and banners, according to an internal cable reviewed by Foreign Policy, as part of the administration’s response to the one-year anniversary of the police murder of George Floyd that sparked international outrage and a nationwide reckoning on systemic racism. The U.S. State Department cable gives chiefs of missions, who head U.S. embassies and consulates worldwide, “blanket written authorization” to display BLM flags and banners as “appropriate in light of local conditions.” It stresses the directive is an “authorization, not a requirement.”
The news was first reported on Monday by Jack Posobiec at Human Events.
On Friday, House GOP Conference Chair Elise Stefanik (R-NY) and Reps. Nicole Malliotakis (R-NY), Ken Buck (R-CO), Michael Guest (R-MS), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Brian Mast (R-FL), and Pete Sessions (R-TX) introduced the Stars and Stripes Act of 2021.
The bill would allow the following flags to be flown at U.S. embassies:
The flag of the United States. The flag of the country where the diplomatic or consular post is located. The flag of a State, territory, or possession of the United States. A departmental or secretarial flag. A departmental or secretarial flag. A flag designed to honor persons who are classified as prisoners of war or missing-in-action.’
The bill restricts what kinds of flags that the Secretary of State can fly at diplomatic and consular posts around the world. A press release from the lawmakers highlighted the far-left political agenda of the organization.
“It is inappropriate for President Biden and Secretary Blinken to authorize and encourage the display of inherently political flags that are in no way affiliated with the U.S. Government over American embassies overseas,” Malliotakis said. “The American flag is a beacon of freedom and hope for oppressed peoples around the world; it should be the primary flag flown above our embassies and that is what my legislation seeks to accomplish. The Administration’s directive is an insult to those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our flag and our nation – especially as we head into Memorial Day weekend – and it is absolutely ridiculous that legislation is needed to correct this issue.”
In supporting Malliotakis’ bill, Stefanik said, “Our beautiful American flag should fly over our U.S. embassies around the world – not the flag of a political organization founded by Marxists.”
“The death of George Floyd opened important discussions surrounding police reform in the United States. However, using United States resources to display a non-government organization flag over United States embassies is not permissible,” Guest said in a statement. “I encourage every American to exercise their First Amendment right to free speech and to continue civil dialogue around this matter. However, these discussions should not be aired out on an international stage. Our country’s resources should be used to highlight our unity, not our political divisions.”
“The only flag that should characterize the United States of America at our embassies overseas is Old Glory,” Sessions said. “Political flags have no place in exemplifying our nation abroad.”
This report has been updated to include additional information.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Actress and failed New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon denounced anti-shoplifting laws, arguing that people who steal necessities in order to survive should not be prosecuted.
In a recent tweet, Nixon decried a New York City CVS for locking up merchandise due to an uptick in theft.
“The CVS on my corner has started locking up basic items like clothing detergent. As so many families can’t make ends meet right now, I can’t imagine thinking that the way to solve the problem of people stealing basic necessities out of desperation is to prosecute them,” she tweeted.
The CVS on my corner has started locking up basic items like clothing detergent. As so many families can’t make ends meet right now, I can’t imagine thinking that the way to solve the problem of people stealing basic necessities out of desperation is to prosecute them. https://t.co/5RsdMTDWqa — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) May 22, 2021
Nixon was responding to a tweet from Errol Louis, who said that “several candidates for Manhattan DA (and for NYC Mayor) say shoplifting should not be prosecuted because that’s ‘criminalizing poverty.'”
Louis mentioned the Manhattan DA candidates after sharing an article in The New York Times noting that shoplifting has skyrocketed in San Francisco recently, likely a result of Proposition 47, which said stealing would not be a felony in California if the item stolen did not exceed $950. The San Francisco News described the situation as being “out of control,” and that 17 Walgreens have had to close in the past five years due to rampant shoplifting in the city.
17 Walgreen locations in San Francisco have closed their doors within the last five years according to a report from the SF Chronicle. Ten of these closures transpired from 2019 to this year with the last Walgreens store to close its door as of this writing, back on March 17. The cause of the closures is due to rampant shoplifting and looting that has transpired at Walgreen locations in the city believed to be perpetuated by an organized crime ring. On Thursday, May 13 a hearing was held by the Board of Supervisors with retailers, the SFPD, the district attorney’s office, and probation departments. Brendan Dugan, director of organized retail crime and corporate investigations, believes that San Francisco is at the center of organized retail crime. He brought up a state bust in the Bay Area from last year in which $8 million in stolen merchandise was confiscated from five suspects. The merchandise came from CVS, Target and Walgreens stores from all across San Francisco.
In the fall of last year, actress Cynthia Nixon denounced author J.K. Rowling for her stance against extreme aspects of transgender ideology. Speaking with The Independent, Nixon said that her transgender child Samuel felt deep pain after hearing Rowling’s comments due to the influence that the “Harry Potter” series had on the child.
“It was really painful for him because so much of his childhood was tied up with Harry Potter. We’re a Harry Potter family,” Nixon said. “The books seem to be about championing people who are different, so for her to select this one group of people who are obviously different and sort of deny their existence, it’s just… it’s really baffling.”
“I know she feels like she’s standing up for feminism, but I don’t get it,” she added.
Related: Cynthia Nixon: J.K. Rowling’s Comments Were ‘Really Painful’ For My Trans Son
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Tennis star Naomi Osaka was fined $15,000 Sunday for refusing to attend a post-match press conference during the French Open and has been warned that she will face further consequences if she continues to do so.
While Osaka had a successful start to the tournament, she said previously that she would skip mandatory post-match media briefings during the French Open. Under the rules, Osaka must still meet with the media for post-match news conferences upon request, reports AP.
In a Wednesday statement on Twitter, Osaka referred to the obligatory news conferences as opportunities for “kicking a person while they’re down,” and suggested they were detrimental toward the mental health of athletes.
“We’re often sat there and asked questions that we’ve been asked multiple times before or asked questions that bring doubt into our minds and I’m just not going to subject myself to people that doubt me. I’ve watched many clips of athletes breaking down after a loss in the press room and I know you have as well. I believe that whole situation is kicking a person while they’re down and I don’t understand the reasoning behind it,” said Osaka.
“Me not doing press is nothing personal to the tournament and a couple journalists have interviewed me since I was young so I have a friendly relationship with most of them. However, if the organizations think that they can just keep saying, ‘do press or you’re gonna be fined,’ and continue to ignore the mental health of athletes that are the centerpiece of their cooperation then I just gotta laugh,” she continued.
The Grand Slam tournament heads released a statement Sunday saying they tried unsuccessfully to talk to Osaka to get her to reconsider her stance and to check in on her mental health. The four heads also warned that Osaka could later face stiffer consequences, including risk of tournament default.
“A core element of the Grand Slam regulations is the responsibility of the players to engage with the media, whatever the result of their match, a responsibility which players take for the benefit of the sport, the fans and for themselves. These interactions allow both the players and the media to share their perspective and for the players to tell their story. The facilitation of media to a broad array of channels, both traditional and digital, is a major contributor to the development and growth of our sport and the fan base of individual players,” said the tournament heads in a statement.
“We want to underline that rules are in place to ensure all players are treated exactly the same, no matter their stature, beliefs or achievement. As a sport there is nothing more important than ensuring no player has an unfair advantage over another, which unfortunately is the case in this situation if one player refuses to dedicate time to participate in media commitments while the others all honour their commitments,” they continued.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, told CNN’s Jake Tapper on Sunday that one of the things the U.S. should do to China in retaliation for the pandemic is going to be removing America’s supply chain from the region.
After discussing the evidence that points in the direction of the pandemic originating from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, Tapper asked McCaul what President Joe Biden should do, and what the world should do in response.
“My response to this whole thing is supply chain,” McCaul said. “We need to pull our supply chain out of the region, that being medical supply, rare earth mineral supply. And a bill that’s going through Congress right now, bipartisan, that I’m working on, the CHIPS for America Act, advanced semiconductor chips, which are the brains in everything from your iPhone to the F-35. If we can pull these chains out of China, it will hurt them economically. And that would be very punitive in nature.”
WATCH:
PARTIAL TRANSCRIPT PROVIDED VIA CNN:
JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: Welcome back to STATE OF THE UNION. I’m Jake Tapper. As COVID cases and deaths continue to drop in the United States, the inquiry into the origins of COVID-19 is heating up. This week, President Biden ordered a 90-day investigation into whether the virus could have come out of a lab in Wuhan, China. And we learned that several lab researchers in Wuhan were hospitalized in November 2019, earlier than Chinese officials had revealed.
Joining us now, the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Texas Congressman Michael McCaul. Congressman, good to see you. Thanks for joining us.
REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL (R-TX): Thanks, Jake.
TAPPER: So, you conducted your own investigation into the pandemic’s origins on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. And your committee was just briefed on this last week. Based on what you’ve seen, do you think it’s more likely than not that the coronavirus emerged naturally or from a lab accident?
MCCAUL: You know, I do think it’s more likely than not it emerged out of the lab, most likely accidentally, for several reasons. And, first of all, Jake, let me say, this is the worst cover-up in human history that we have seen, resulting in 3.5 million deaths, creating economic devastation around the globe. As you mentioned, though, it was just declassified that three of the researchers were actually hospitalized in November of 2019 with flu-like symptoms consistent with COVID. That was suppressed by the Chinese Communist Party. Since that time, in December, they silenced and detained the doctors who were reporting a SARS-like virus, which, under international health regulations, had to be reported within 24 hours. They went and destroyed lab samples. They wouldn’t admit it was human-to-human, and then, working with the WHO, failed to report to the world that we had a local epidemic that was now going into a global pandemic. So, time and time again, we’re seeing this cover-up. A couple more facts here, that there were two State Department cables in 2018 that called into question the safety protocols at that lab. And let’s not forget, in 2004, with SARS virus, they accidentally leaked the SARS virus from that lab in 2004. They were studying corona-like viruses from bats, genetically mutating them, and then trying to develop a vaccine for what would be a next wave of a SARS-like virus, almost precisely what COVID-19 is.
TAPPER: So, let me ask you, President Biden has ordered this 90-day review by the intelligence community to see what they think. If they conclude the same thing that you have — and there’s no reason to think that they wouldn’t — what should the world do? What should President Biden do?
MCCAUL: Well, I’m glad the president finally has done this. It’s long overdue. I think, because they have destroyed everything at the lab, it could be very inconclusive. We have SIGINT, signals intelligence, and HUMINT, and other forms of intelligence, but it may not be 100 percent. But I think saying it’s more likely than not is probably the right answer here. My response to this whole thing is supply chain. We need to pull our supply chain out of the region, that being medical supply, rare earth mineral supply. And a bill that’s going through Congress right now, bipartisan, that I’m working on, the CHIPS for America Act, advanced semiconductor chips, which are the brains in everything from your iPhone to the F-35. If we can pull these chains out of China, it will hurt them economically. And that would be very punitive in nature.Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) on Sunday called the origins of the coronavirus the “worst cover-up in human history,” saying it is “more likely than not” that the pathogen’s spread was caused by a lab accident.
“You know, I do think it’s more likely than not it emerged out of the lab. Most likely accidentally,” McCaul told CNN host Jake Tapper on “State of the Union.”
“This is the worst cover-up in human history that we’ve seen, resulting in 3.5 million deaths, creating an economic devastation around the globe,” the Texas Republican added.
McCaul’s remarks come days after a U.S. intelligence report found that several researchers at China’s Wuhan Institute of Virology were hospitalized in November 2019 with symptoms that resembled COVID-19 symptoms. China previously told the World Health Organization that the first person with symptoms similar to COVID-19 appeared in Wuhan the next month on December 8, 2019.
“That was suppressed by the Chinese Communist Party,” McCaul said of the early hospitalizations among Wuhan researchers.
Last week, President Biden announced that he has asked the U.S. intelligence community to redouble its efforts to uncover the origin of the coronavirus and to report back to him in 90 days. Biden revealed that he previously ordered the intelligence community to prepare “a report on their most up-to-date analysis of the origins of COVID-19, including whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident.”
McCaul called the Biden administration’s probe “long overdue,” but warned that the results of Biden’s investigation could be “very inconclusive” since “they have destroyed everything at the lab.”
McCaul, the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, also called for the U.S. to deal a financial blow to China by halting purchases of some items from the world’s second largest economy.
“My response to this whole thing is supply chain,” McCaul said Sunday. “We need to pull our supply chain out of the region, that being medical supply, rare earth mineral supply.”
“If we can pull these chains out of China, it will hurt them economically,” he added. “And that would be very punitive in nature.”
McCaul teamed up with Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) on a bill, the CHIPS for America Act, which proposes offering more financial incentives to manufacture semiconductors in the U.S.
House Republicans have called for a congressional probe into the origins of the virus.
“We request that you instruct the appropriate Democrat committee chairs to immediately join Republican calls to hold the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) accountable for its role in causing the global COVID-19 pandemic,” reads a letter from 209 House Republicans, led by Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA).
“There is mounting evidence the pandemic started in a Chinese lab, and the CCP covered it up,” the lawmakers wrote. “If that is the case, the CCP is responsible for the deaths of almost 600,000 Americans and millions more worldwide.”
Some Democrats have joined the calls for a congressional investigation, including Sen. Tim Kaine (D-VA).
“As we analyze what went wrong and what we can do in the future, we have to have answers to these questions, too,” Kaine said. “And I think you’re going to see Congress addressing some of these matters as well. We’ve got to get to the bottom of it.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb told CBS News on Sunday that China likely knows where the coronavirus pandemic originated from based on some of the evidence that they have.
Gottlieb’s comments come as the narrative in the legacy media has shifted in recent weeks toward considering the possibility that SARS-CoV-2 might have escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
When asked if he believes that the Chinese know the answer about the pandemic’s origins, Gottlieb responded, “They would know the answer to the question because they would have blood samples from the workers in that lab.”
“And that’s the evidence that they haven’t made public,” Gottlieb continued. “If, in fact, the blood samples show that a high prevalence of people in that lab have been exposed to this virus, that’s pretty definitive proof that this coursed through that lab. And they would also have the samples from the time that they were first drawn, which was the time when they had those illnesses. There’s no question that when they had an outbreak of an illness in that lab that they would have done routine blood sampling in that lab. That’s just normal controls in a lab of that quality. So they would have that information”
Other newsworthy quotes that Gottlieb made during the interview:
WATCH:
TRANSCRIPT PROVIDED VIA CBS NEWS:
JOHN DICKERSON: We go now to former FDA commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb, who sits on the board of Pfizer and joins us from Westport, Connecticut. He has just finished work on a book that will be out this fall titled: “Uncontrolled Spread: Why COVID-19 Crushed US and How We Can Defeat the Next Pandemic.” Good morning, Dr. Gottlieb.
DOCTOR SCOTT GOTTLIEB: Good morning.
JOHN DICKERSON: So usually when we’re together, we talk about the past and look towards the future, but this week, we’ve been talking a lot about the past. Why is it that there is now a conversation about how this pandemic started, and why is that important?
DR. GOTTLIEB: Well, look, I think the challenge is that the side of the ledger that suggests that this could have come out of a lab has continued to expand. And the side of the ledger that suggests that this could have come from a zoonotic source, come out of nature, really hasn’t budged. And if anything, you can argue that that side of the ledger has contracted because we’ve done an exhaustive search for the so-called intermediate host, the animal that could have been host to this virus before it spread to humans. We have not found such an animal. We’ve also fully disproven the market, the food market that was initially implicated in the original outbreak as the source of the outbreak. And so that side of the ledger probably has shrunken, and China could provide evidence that would be exculpatory here. They could provide the blood samples from those who worked in the lab in Wuhan. They’ve refused to do that. They could provide the source strain, some of the original strains. They’ve refused to do that. They [could] provide access to some of the early samples that we could sequence. They could provide an inventory of what was in the lab, the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the lab that has been implicated in a potential lab leak. They have refused to do that. And we know that that lab was poorly constructed, had poor controls. That was reported at the time that it was first opened. We know the lab was engaging in very high-risk research, including infecting transgenic animals, animals with fully human immune systems. We know they were working with SARS-like viruses that have never been disclosed before. And now we have new evidence that some lab workers became infected right at the time that this virus was believed to be first introduced. That’s been publicly reported. So that side of the ledger has expanded. And I think that’s why there is renewed focus on this. In terms of your final question, why this is important, I think if we assess that there is a probability or a possibility that this came out of a lab, it’s going to affect how we respond to this. We’re going to need to focus on trying to get better controls in this sort of high-risk research going forward and get better controls over these BSL-4, these high security labs that conduct this research. Incidentally, China was not conducting this research in a BSL-4 lab. They were doing it in a lower security BSL-2 lab.
JOHN DICKERSON: So in terms of looking at this going forward, back to the title of your book, “How We Can Defeat the Next Pandemic,” your argument is it’s important to know how this started in this case because there is this specific lab. But there have been also other cases where security has been lax and there have been leaks. And so it’s important to figure out what happened here in order to kind of lock the doors tight, to keep it from happening again.
DR. GOTTLIEB: That’s right. These kinds of lab leaks happen all the time, actually. Even here in the United States, we’ve had mishaps. And in China, the last six known outbreaks of SARS-1 have been out of labs, including the last known outbreak, which was a pretty extensive outbreak that China initially wouldn’t disclose that it came out of lab. It was only for — it was only disclosed finally by some journalists who were able to trace that outbreak back to a laboratory. So it’s important to understand what the possibility is that this came out of a lab so we could focus more international attention on trying to get better inventories around these labs, what they’re doing, better security, make sure they’re properly built. We need to also look at public health through the lens of national security. This was an asymmetric harm to the United States. COVID hurt the U.S. a lot more than it hurt many other countries. And that’s another thing I talk about in the book, looking at these kinds of risks through the lens of national security, including getting our intelligence services more engaged in this mission. Traditionally, we’ve relied on international conventions and scientists working together, multilateral agreements to try to assess the risks and try to uncover these kinds of outbreaks. I think we also need to get better surveillance in place and use our tools of national security to help engage in that mission as well.
JOHN DICKERSON: If there were an answer to this question, would it help with any way in which we are covering and responding to the coronavirus now? In other words, dealing with variants or anything, is there a public health benefit to knowing this at this moment?
DR. GOTTLIEB: Not right now. I think what we know about the virus, we already know about the virus. And there’s nothing that we’re going to learn about the characteristics of the current virus by knowing its origin. Quite frankly, we’ve had enough experience with this virus to fully understand it. I think it informs how we go forward, and how we prepare ourselves against these threats in the future, and reduce these likelihoods. That’s where this becomes very important.
JOHN DICKERSON: And what about in the past? There was discussion of this very early in the response to the pandemic. People thought this might be one of the places it might have come from. If we had known for certain, which, it’s an open question whether we ever could have known. But if in the early days of the pandemic, we had known that it came from this lab, would that have changed in any way the response to the pandemic?
DR. GOTTLIEB: I’m not sure it would have affected how we responded to it. Once this became epidemic in China and once it escaped China, it was going to behave the way it behaved. I’m not sure there’s things we would have learned or gleaned by knowing that it came out of a lab and perhaps was manipulated or humanized in a lab. We could ascertain that this was pretty humanized by the time it started to spread in humans. Again, I think this is more of a question going forward. And we may never really determine with precision whether or not this came out of a lab. I think what we’re likely to end up with is an assessment, a probability, unless we get very lucky and we either find the intermediate host, we find a colony of civet cats or pangolins where this is epidemic and it could have first spilled over into humans, or we have a whistleblower in China or regime change, which we’re not going to have. I don’t know that we’re going to find out with certainty that this came out of a lab. I think we’re going to ultimately come up with an assessment and a probability on whether this came out of a lab versus a zoonotic source. And it’s going to take some more data to get a better overall assessment in terms of the probability that this could have come out of a lab. But we might get that information.
JOHN DICKERSON: Is it your view that the Chinese know the answer to this question?
DR. GOTTLEIB: They would know the answer to the question because they would have blood samples from the workers in that lab. And that’s the evidence that they haven’t made public. If, in fact, the blood samples show that a high prevalence of people in that lab have been exposed to this virus, that’s pretty definitive proof that this coursed through that lab. And they would also have the samples from the time that they were first drawn, which was the time when they had those illnesses. There’s no question that when they had an outbreak of an illness in that lab that they would have done routine blood sampling in that lab. That’s just normal controls in a lab of that quality. So they would have that information.
JOHN DICKERSON: All right, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, congratulations on finishing the book. Thanks again for being with us, as always.Singer Demi Lovato recently seemed to suggest that she would have identified as “non-binary” sooner if it weren’t for the “patriarchy.”
During an appearance on Jane Fonda’s live stream “Fire Drill Friday,” Lovato said the “patriarchy” dominated her life in the entertainment industry by telling her what she was supposed to be like.
“After years of living my life for other people, trying to make myself smaller for the patriarchy … they run the industry, right? They are at the center of everything. And so, when I realized that, I thought, ‘What are the ways that the patriarchy has been holding me back?’” Lovato said. “And for me, it was putting me in a box, telling me that ‘You are a female, this is what you’re supposed to like, this is what you’re supposed to do, don’t dream bigger and don’t speak louder.’ That didn’t vibe for me because I’m too outspoken for that.”
Regarding politics in this divided country, Lovato said that she encourages people to have “compassion” and “empathy for others,” even though she just recently used her social media platform to smear a small business for selling sugar-free frozen yogurt.
“I think that all I can encourage people to do is to find more compassion and to have more empathy for others,” Lovato said. “If you’re having a hard time finding that towards others, go within yourself, find it within yourself so that you can find it for others because that’s really what’s going to, I think, bring us together is that unity.”
“Remembering that even though we are individuals, we are one, and when we start excluding people, that’s when things get really hateful [and] dangerous,” she added.
﻿
Earlier this month, Lovato said she was changing her pronouns to “They” by identifying as “non-binary.”
“Today is a day I’m so happy to share more of my life with you all- I am proud to let you know that I identify as non-binary & will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward,” Lovato posted in a Twitter thread.
“This has come after a lot of healing & self-reflective work. I’m still learning & coming into myself, & I don’t claim to be an expert or a spokesperson. Sharing this with you now opens another level of vulnerability for me,” she continued. “I’m doing this for those out there that haven’t been able to share who they truly are with their loved ones. Please keep living in your truths & know I am sending so much love your way xox.”
Previously, Lovato said that she cut her hair to free herself of the gender and sexuality norms in the Christian South.
“I cut my hair because I just wanted to free myself of all of the gender and sexuality norms that were placed on me as a Christian in the South. And when I cut my hair, I felt so liberated because I wasn’t subscribing to an ideal or a belief placed upon me to be something that I’m not,” she said on “The Drew Barrymore Show.”
Related: Demi Lovato Cut Her Hair To Free Herself Of The ‘Gender And Sexuality Norms’ From The Christian South
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Afghan veteran Johnny “Joey” Jones posted a raw, powerful message to Twitter on Saturday, reflecting on the upcoming Memorial Day holiday and paying tribute to his fallen brothers.
Jones, a Marine vet who lost both legs above the knee and suffered serious damage to his right forearm and both wrists in 2010 when he served as an Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD/Bomb) technician in Afghanistan, detailed why he “can’t drink” anymore, haunted by the memories of those who fought for our freedom and never made it back home.
“I can’t drink anymore,” Jones posted in a Twitter thread. “When I do, the ghosts show up. They put their arm on my shoulder, look at me, body parts missing, faces half blown off. They smile with what is left of their smile. They look at me with wisdom I can’t fathom and hold me with love I can’t understand.”
“I just can’t face them,” the veteran continued. “How do I look upon a man with honest eyes, knowing I’m here breathing, laughing, complaining and he’s lying dead beneath my… us. I can’t have that tough conversation with any of them. The one where I tell them I miss them. Where I say I’m sorry and they reply ‘for what?’ The conversation where they ask me about their kids-toddlers then, adults now-their widows.. some remarried and happy, some drowning in sorrow and regret.”
“I can’t look upon their faces and keep a dry eye,” Jones wrote. “So when I drink, and my brothers come, I cry. I get angry. I see visions of hell and feel resentment for heaven. I see spoiled children laughing around me, the lucky ones who haven’t seen behind those curtains, the many. I hate them for their ignorance, I hate I didn’t die when I should’ve to keep them that way. So I don’t drink.”
“Instead,” he closed, “I smile. I Remember them as they were. I watch their kids grow and find love and speak their names and tell their stories as often as I can.”
I just can’t face them. How do I look upon a man with honest eyes, knowing I’m here breathing, laughing, complaining and he’s lying dead beneath my… us. I can’t have that tough conversation with any of them. The one where I tell them I miss them. Where I say I’m sorry and they — Joey Jones (@Johnny_Joey) May 30, 2021
I see visions of hell and feel resentment for heaven. I see spoiled children laughing around me, the lucky ones who haven’t seen behind those curtains, the many. I hate them for their ignorance, I hate I didn’t die when I should’ve to keep them that way. So I don’t drink. — Joey Jones (@Johnny_Joey) May 30, 2021
Instead, I smile. I Remember them as they were. I watch their kids grow and find love and speak their names and tell their stories as often as I can: GYSGT Floyd Holley: https://t.co/8bxWUHZa25 — Joey Jones (@Johnny_Joey) May 30, 2021
Jones specifically mentioned the following fallen heroes: GYSGT Floyd Holley, SSGT David B. Lyon, SSgt Joey Fankhauser, SSgt Steve Dunning, Nick Sprovtsoff, Dan Patron, EJ Pate, Dave Day, Justin Schmalstieg, Top Fedder, Chris Eastman, Adam Perkins, Chris Eckard, Adam Benjamin, Daniel Greer, and Chris McDonald.
My best friend from 8th grade. Marine. Mentor and brother. Chris McDonald: https://t.co/ZdU5dSnPjg — Joey Jones (@Johnny_Joey) May 30, 2021
Related: Kamala Harris Faces Backlash For ‘Obtuse,’ ‘Grotesque’ Memorial Day Weekend Tweet
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.In the latest version of a lawsuit against Google from Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich, the Big Tech giant allegedly tracked user location via third-party apps — including when devices were connected to WiFi, even if the user had switched location services off.
According to a report by the AZ Mirror, employees of Google shared concerns that media outlets, such as The New York Times, would discover the truth.
“So there is no way to give a third party app your location and not Google?” a Google employee is quoted as saying in the complaint in a previously redacted section, as reported by the AZ Mirror. “This doesn’t sound like something we would want on the front page of the NYT.”
As the AZ Mirror explained, the complaint against Google “is part of an ongoing consumer fraud lawsuit Brnovich first filed in May 2020 alleging that Google’s data collection schemes violated the state’s Consumer Fraud Act,” adding that “large portions of the lawsuit were redacted by the court at Google’s request.”
A “legal battle” then ensued regarding what information could be released.
Arizona’s Attorney General reportedly started the investigation into Google’s practices following an Associated Press article from 2018 titled, “AP Exclusive: Google tracks your movements, like it or not.”
“Google wants to know where you go so badly that it records your movements even when you explicitly tell it not to,” reported Ryan Nakashima for AP in August 2018. “An Associated Press investigation found that many Google services on Android devices and iPhones store your location data even if you’ve used a privacy setting that says it will prevent Google from doing so.”
Speaking with Fox Business, Brnovich said that, “The reality is that the stuff we’ve uncovered is shocking.”
“It just confirms that Google is doing everything it can to spy on everyone it can, without providing any sort of notice to anyone,” Brnovich continued, also adding: “We allege when consumers try to opt out of Google collecting location data, the company is continuing to find misleading ways to obtain that information and then use it for their financial advantage.”
According to Fox News, Google spokesperson José Castañeda accused both Arizona’s Attorney General and Google’s competitors of “mischaracterizing” their “services.”
“The Attorney General and our competitors driving this lawsuit have gone out of their way to mischaracterize our services,” Castañeda said. “We have always built privacy features into our products and provided robust controls for location data. We look forward to setting the record straight.”
According to the formerly-redacted documents, another Google employee said, “I agree with the article. Location off should mean location off, not except for this case or that case.”
“Real people just think in terms of ‘location is on,’ ‘location is off’ because that is exactly what you have on the front screen of your phone,” another reportedly said.
“What we’ve uncovered so far, I believe, shows that Google themselves understand and appreciate that what they are doing is something that is sneaky and something that would piss off consumers if they knew about it,” Brnovich said. “So the fact they are trying to hide what they are doing, they are being sneaky about it, and using every trick in the arsenal to stop this from seeing the light of day is all consumers need to know about Google’s intentions.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Last week, pop singer Richard Marx, known mostly for his 1980s rock ballads, celebrated the neighbor who attacked Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY), causing six broken ribs, which later necessitated the removal of part of Paul’s lung.
“I’ll say it again: If I ever meet Rand Paul’s neighbor I’m going to hug him and buy him as many drinks as he can consume,” tweeted Marx.
Marx also previously tweeted in January: “My wish for 2021 is that Rand Paul’s neighbor moves next door to Ted Cruz.”
My wish for 2021 is that Rand Paul’s neighbor moves next door to Ted Cruz. — Richard Marx (@richardmarx) January 7, 2021
Though Marx was not technically calling for violence against Rand Paul, he was undoubtedly celebrating violence against him, showing no remorse or reverence for the fact that a man had caused severe bodily damage to a duly elected senator. Shortly after Marx made his declaration about Rand Paul’s neighbor, the senator received a white powder substance in the mail, prompting Paul to publicly rebuke Richard Marx without mentioning him by name.
“I take these threats immensely seriously. As a repeated target of violence, it is reprehensible that Twitter allows C-list celebrities to encourage violence against me and my family,” tweeted Paul.
I take these threats immensely seriously. As a repeated target of violence, it is reprehensible that Twitter allows C-list celebrities to encourage violence against me and my family. https://t.co/e1rQ6uwPdf — Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) May 24, 2021
Comedian Stephen Colbert, however, believed Richard Marx did nothing wrong and invited the singer onto his show, allowing him to plug his memoir and upcoming concert dates.
“Richard Marx has over 300,000 followers on Twitter; I believe they’re called Marxists,” said Colbert. “And with that kind of social media platform, you have to be careful about what you say. Still, to think that Richard Marx is dangerous is just ridiculous.”
As noted by Christian Toto of HollywoodInToto, Stephen Colbert previously offered no pushback to Vice President Kamala Harris, then-senator, when she said that riots over the death of George Floyd were “not going to stop.”
“They’re not going to stop … This is a movement, I’m telling you. They’re not going to stop and everyone beware, because they’re not going to stop,” she said. “They’re not going to stop before Election Day in November and they’re not going to stop after Election Day. Everyone should take note of that on both levels. They’re not going to let up, and they should not and we should not.”
In 2019, Rand Paul underwent surgery to have a part of his lung removed as a result of the felony assault committed by his neighbor Rene Boucher, a Democrat.
“The Kentucky senator told police that his neighbor ‘came onto his property and tackled him from behind, forcing him to the ground and causing pain.’ The attack left him with six broken ribs, pleural effusion, and, consequently, pneumonia,” reported The Daily Wire. “Rene Boucher, 59, was arrested in November 2017 after he attacked Paul outside his Bowling Green, Kentucky, home. He was reportedly upset after Paul blew some leaves onto his property with his lawnmower. The judge presiding over the case referred to the attack as a ‘dispute between neighbors’ and denied that it was politically motivated.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson married his fiancée Saturday afternoon in a ceremony that the couple reportedly managed to keep secret from even some of Johnson’s top aides until the last minute.
Johnson, 56, showed up to Westminster Cathedral on Saturday with fiancée Carrie Symonds, 33, apparently without arousing suspicions of the British media. The prime minister’s wedding was kept secret until hours later, at which point the Daily Mail and The Sun reported on it, the latter describing it as “so secret even top aides didn’t know about it.”
BORIS Johnson and Carrie Symonds even caught top Downing Street aides by surprise with their cloak-and-dagger nuptials. Tourists visiting Westminster Cathedral yesterday were also blissfully unaware it was about to host the wedding of the year. Posting on her personal Instagram today, Carrie wrote: “Thank you for the kind messages. Very, very happy” along with a picture of her and Boris looking besotted on the big day.
A spokesperson for N0. 10 Downing Street, the U.K. prime minister’s office, confirmed the wedding to the Daily Mail in a statement: “The Prime Minister and Ms Symonds were married yesterday afternoon in a small ceremony at Westminster Cathedral. The couple will celebrate their wedding with family and friends next summer.”
The wedding was particularly surprising because the couple sent out save-the-date invitations for July, 30, 2022 mere days ago, prompting speculation that they were planning something extravagant. “Opting for a date more than a year hence, when it is hoped Covid protocols will be in the past, means there’s no reason not to have a great big wedding, perhaps at Chequers,” reported The Sunday Times last week.
According to the Daily Mail, about thirty people attended the ceremony, most of whom reportedly only found out about it last-minute as well. The cathedral was set on a lockdown shortly before the couple arrived for the big event. Father Michael Donaghey, the cathedral chaplain, was reportedly not told the identity of the bride and groom in advance either. “It’s been kept very confidential,” said Donaghey.
A colleague of Johnson’s, however, told The Sun there were signs Johnson was preparing for a big day. “I was a bit surprised when he turned up for a meeting the other day with a smart haircut,” he said. “He wasn’t his usual unkempt self and the first thing that entered my mind was that he might be attending some sort of special occasion.”
“I thought it might be a VIP summit but never suspected it might be a surprise wedding,” said Johnson’s colleague, who is of the same political party.
Johnson became engaged in 2019, shortly before his divorce with his second wife was finalized. He is only the second prime minister to be married while in office — the first having been married 199 years ago. The two have a one-year-old son together named Wilfred.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The nation’s largest hospital group will require “conscious inclusion” training for all employees this year and recommended that employees read Robin DiAngelo’s “White Fragility,” according to internal company documents.
HCA Healthcare said that all employees will receive mandatory “conscious inclusion” training in 2021 as part of their “annual code of conduct refresher training,” according to the internal documents, which were provided to The Daily Wire by an HCA employee.
“Conscious inclusion” training is considered the next step after “unconscious bias” training. While the goal of “unconscious bias” training is to reveal to someone their own internal barriers to inclusivity, the goal of “conscious inclusion” training is to provide them with the tools to do something about it.
So far, 45% of HCA employees at the director level or above have already completed “conscious inclusion” training, the mammoth hospital group said.
The “conscious inclusion” training will include activities like the “Name That Bias” card game, and will last up to two and a half hours, an outline of the training shows.
Robin DiAngelo’s “White Fragility” and Ibram X. Kendi’s “How to Be an Antiracist” were recommended to employees in a supplemental section with additional resources on diversity, equity, and inclusion. Also recommended was “When They Call You a Terrorist: A Black Lives Matter Memoir,” which was co-authored by Patrisse Cullors, one of the founders of Black Lives Matter, who on Thursday announced her resignation amid backlash over her expensive lifestyle, which includes four homes.
The hospital group also outlined other “equity” commitments for this year, including a goal to have 35% of new hires for management and supervisor roles be people of color.
HCA also announced a new sponsorship program “for a select cohort of Black colleagues to accelerate advancement in leadership.” The program was recommended by HCA’s Black Senior Leadership Council, which was established last year and spearheaded diverse talent recruitment initiatives.
The hospital group is also pledging to invest $300,000 in grants for community partners “supporting social justice and health equity.”
Last summer, HCA’s Chief Diversity Officer Sherri Neal announced a new program where HCA pledged to match employees’ donations to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the Black Lives Matter Foundation, the National Urban League, and “other nonprofits that support racial justice and address health equity for communities of color.”
It is unclear whether the donations went to the actual Black Lives Matter movement or the “Black Lives Matter Foundation,” an unaffiliated charitable organization with one paid employee and a completely different goal of “bringing the community and police closer together,” according to its founder. A slew of companies and organizations mistook the group for the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation last summer.
HCA did not respond to a request for comment.
The Nashville-based health care group operates at least 185 hospitals and about 2,000 health care sites in the U.S. and Britain, including surgery centers, urgent care centers, diagnostic and imaging centers, and walk-in clinics. It is the largest health system in the U.S. both by net patient revenue and by member hospitals.
The group’s equity goals make HCA the latest health care group to ramp up its equity initiatives in 2021.
Earlier this month, the American Medical Association (AMA) released a lengthy “anti-racist” plan detailing the organization’s ambitious plan to “embed racial justice” in the medical profession.
The AMA’s plan pushes for expanding medical school education to include “critical race theory,” “anti-racism,” and “equity-explicit” training.
The American Heart Association (AHA) adopted a similar anti-racist ideology, prompting a lawsuit last year over disciplinary action taken against an Asian American doctor who questioned whether using race in admissions decisions is legal.
Meanwhile, medical schools have adopted dramatic affirmative action policies in order to matriculate a “critical mass” of black applicants, who tend to score lower on the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) than their white and Asian counterparts.
Such policies have raised concerns among members of the medical community that lowering standards for those providing life-saving care could have dangerous consequences.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Employees at a Texas hospital have filed a suit over the facility’s mandate that they get vaccinated against COVID-19.
Houston Methodist Hospital, which manages eight hospitals, gave employees until June 7 to get the vaccine or they could be suspended or fired, the lawsuit claims. So 117 unvaccinated employees banded together and filed suit.
“Methodist Hospital is forcing its employees to be human ‘guinea pigs’ as a condition for continued employment,” the complaint states, according The Washington Post.
The lawsuit noted that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not fully approved the vaccines, instead issuing only emergency use authorization. They allege the hospital is “illegally requiring its employees to be injected with an experimental vaccine as a condition of employment.”
The complaint also cites the Nuremberg Code, which “bans forced medical experimentations, again in effect arguing that the vaccine is experimental and potentially unsafe,” Fox News reported.
Attorney Jared Woodfill said the hospital is just trying to make money. “To promote its business and increase profits at the expense of other health care providers and their employees’ health, defendants advertise to the public that they ‘require all employees and employed physicians to get a COVID-19 vaccine,’” Woodfill told ABC News.
“This, as a matter of fact, is a gene modification medical experiment on human beings, performed without informed consent. It is a severe and blatant violation of the Nuremberg Code and the public policy of the state of Texas,” he said.
Hospital CEO Dr. Marc Boom in April sent letters announcing that employees must be vaccinated. “Please see the HR policy that outlines the consequences of not being compliant by June 7, which include suspension and eventually termination,” the letter, which was included in the lawsuit, stated.
“CEOS of other health care institutions are calling nearly every day to ask how we are doing it,” Boom said in the note to staffers. “I hope other health care systems and employers will quickly join Houston Methodist in making the vaccine mandatory for staff. The sooner we’re able to end this pandemic, the fewer lives we will continue to lose to it and the closer we can get to normal.”
“When asked about alternative options for employees who did not want to get the COVID vaccine, Houston Methodist told ABC News that it offered ‘religious and medical exemptions, as well as deferrals for pregnant women,'” ABC reported.
Bloomberg News reported that Boom’s internal email “makes no mention of the hospital’s policy to exempt employees who are pregnant, have underlying medical conditions or strongly held religious convictions from vaccine mandates. ‘It is legal for health care institutions to mandate vaccines, as we have done with the flu vaccine since 2009,’ Boom said in his note. ‘The Covid-19 vaccines have proven through rigorous trials to be very safe and very effective and are not experimental.'”
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC):
COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective.… Millions of people in the United States have received COVID-19 vaccines under the most intense safety monitoring in U.S. history. … CDC recommends you get a COVID-19 vaccine as soon as you can.
“Fully vaccinated people can resume activities without wearing a mask or physically distancing, except where required by federal, state, local, tribal, or territorial laws, rules, and regulations, including local business and workplace guidance,” the CDC adds.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.As Democratic California Governor Gavin Newsom faces a likely recall election, numerous figures have jumped into the race, including transgender activist and former Olympian Caitlyn Jenner.
One person who recently announced his run for governor comes from a place many would consider unlikely for a politician — YouTube.
Kevin Paffrath, or “Meet Kevin” to anyone who follows his YouTube channel, is a 29-year-old real estate and financial YouTuber with more than 1.6 million subscribers and 128,000 Twitter followers.
On May 1, Paffrath announced via a video on his channel that he was jumping into the governor’s race to challenge Gavin Newsom as a Democrat. In his video, Paffrath outlined a detailed list of policy proposals, which can also be read here.
The Daily Wire had the opportunity to speak with Kevin Paffrath, and during our discussion, we spoke about California’s various crises, including homelessness and housing, as well as Paffrath’s audacious “future schools” proposal, energy plans, and much more.
You can listen to the entire interview via the SoundCloud embed below, or read the transcript underneath.
﻿
DW: So what made you decide to jump into the California governor’s race?
PAFFRATH: Absolutely. Frustration over how the state has been handled and what’s falling apart around us. People leaving our state for decades now when you take out births, which is a ridiculous way of propping up the population anyway, we need human capital in our state. Homelessness is going up dramatically despite us spending more and more money on it. Housing is unaffordable, and the red tape, the amount of regulation that we have is ridiculous — it’s not surprising we have a housing shortage. For me, frustration over the last three years as a business owner, and seeing, well, what could actually make a difference? The governor could, but our current governor doesn’t, so I decided to take charge and run for office.
DW: In your plan, you propose eliminating state income taxes on anyone making less than $250,000 a year, then taxing anything above that amount an approximately 5-7%. What was the rationale for making 250,000 the floor for taxation?
PAFFRATH: Really, what we’re trying to do is, first of all, we want to make the government much more efficient and stop the wasteful spending — and we can talk more about exactly how to cover that — but there are many things that we can do without actually costing jobs. And so what we want to do is create jobs and build our economy, but we don’t want to lose people. We’ve got to be competitive with other states, and that’s the problem. California is extremely uncompetitive right now with states like Texas, Nevada, Florida, Idaho, Tennessee really just giving folks the open-door opportunity to start businesses, to live more freely, to live with less government intervention, and less government fees at every part of their lives, and the most visible form of that is every year when we file our state income taxes we feel — “Wow! We pay this much money, and what do we get to show for it?” Then we look around and we go, “Wait a minute. This is broken.”
DW: You mentioned numerous proposals in your very detailed plan, including the tax cuts, but you don’t mention any specific spending cuts that I could see, which are often sort of a third rail in politics on both sides. Do you plan on proposing any spending cuts?
PAFFRATH: What’s going to happen is specifically on day one is something like the high-speed rail is getting killed right away. We’re not doing high-speed rail. We’re not going to spend $125 million-per-mile of railway that connects two places in our state. What we need to do is, we first of all don’t need to be getting ripped off. Right now, we’re paying $125 million-a-mile, we’re spending 12 and a half times what we should be spending for things like tunnels. We can build tunnels for $10 million-a-mile, and even if they cost us more because we did shorter stretches, they’re not going to cost us 12 and a half X what the government is currently spending — but that’s because the government is really good at getting ripped off. What we want to do is we want to make our state more efficient first, and we’re going to do that not by cutting, we’re going to do that by adding.
That’s why we’re going to have a California transition bond to make sure that all Californians can participate in this transition. We want to make our schools better, our roads better. We’re not going to do that with less people; we need more people to make these transitions happen.
But specifically, we’re also, in addition to ending things like the high-speed rail, we have plans that we believe will dramatically save on costs over the long run, over the next five to ten year period. For example, future schools combining colleges and high schools and introducing more technology with a focus on financial education and business vocational training. These are things and opportunities that can dramatically cut down on costs in our school system without having to cut down on what we pay teachers. We might even take our schools down to a three or four day work week because we’re focused on educating, on business and career-focused aspects, and a focus on financial education rather than silly things that really we shouldn’t be focused on in high school. We want people working or being able to have a career by 18 without debt, and these are things that are going to blow up our GDP in terms of massive growth coming to our state.
A lot of our proposals, they start by making very, very large changes, working with the private sector much more, especially in transportation, virtual IDs, maybe even privatizing registration or ticketing. Whatever we can do to simplify and streamline what the state does is what we’re going to be doing without kicking people out of a job.
DW: One of your most audacious ideas, and one of the most interesting, out of the box ideas was future schools. You did a bit of explaining just now, but could you explain your future schools idea more broadly?
PAFFRATH: Yeah. Basically right now, when somebody graduates at 18, they have an issue getting a job, a real-paying job. There’s no way somebody can survive on minimum wage, and that’s pretty much all you can get out of high school. And that’s an issue because that leads to much more reliance on the State of California. A third of Californians are on Medi-Cal. The states spends $16 billion a year on welfare. And my goal isn’t to say, “Let’s just cut these programs.” Not at all. My vision is, let’s give folks the tools so that by 18 they can get a career, not have to go into hundreds of thousands of dollars of student debt just to try to get ahead in this world; learn about becoming investors and building wealth, and all of a sudden maybe what we have are — we have a state of California where people aren’t just electrical engineers for Tesla at 18. They’re engineer investors; they’re plumber investors; they’re electrician investors; they’re computer programmer investors.
And that, to us, is an opportunity not only to consolidate costs that we have in schooling, which saves our state money, which again reduces our reliance on the state income tax. But what also happens as a by-product of that, over time, less people on welfare, less people are on Medi-Cal which — there we go, more cost savings for the state. So it all works together. We can’t have one of these plans without the other, but we’ve got a lot of work to do — even housing is a complete disaster. We’ve got a massive housing affordability problem and a massive homeless issue. A lot of these things all relate to each other. Homelessness relates to mental health. It relates to future schools and education and the lack of wealth-building education we get. We’ve got a lot of problems to fix in this state.
DW: Could you talk about your plans to end the homelessness crisis?
PAFFRATH: Absolutely. The first thing that the state needs to do is provide compassion. We don’t do that as a state, and quite frankly as a society, we’ve become very uncompassionate. And partly, some of the additional violence that we see televised so regularly, which is so devastating, it really feels like it’s potentially a side effect of a lack of compassion that we have in society. We’re so hyper-competitive, so focused on building our own income streams that we kind of don’t talk to our neighbors anymore. We don’t care about other people anymore like society used to — even just in recent decades. And so this has led to this explosion, or at least in part led to this explosion in homelessness being looked at as really just a nasty problem that should just be hidden away.
And people spite homeless folks on the street, there’s no compassion. The plan specifically starts there. We use the National Guard to provide three meals a day to every homeless person wherever they are throughout the state. We provide them access to clean showers, hygiene products, the opportunity to feel safe and secure to where they’re not getting beaten and raped on the streets — and it also makes our public feel more safe and secure. At the same time, we’re going to build 80 emergency facilities throughout the state, each to house about 2,000 individuals who are homeless.
So that once we actually show compassion, we show, no this government is different. We care, which is something that nobody has believed about the government, and it makes sense, look around. But when we actually prove that, we can invite folks to come, get help, get shelter, get mental health access, all centralized in one facility. Mental health, psychiatric health, substance abuse health, shelter — these are basic human needs, and this is a state of emergency. The fact that our governor is talking about, “Let’s throw another $12 billion on top of the funnel and maybe things will get better in five years,” it’s a joke.
DW: On your website you say, “No one lives on the streets anymore within 60 days.” And you just mentioned you’d use the National Guard and declare a state of emergency. Do you have any plans for homeless individuals who don’t want to leave their encampments, who don’t want to leave the streets? Will they be taken by force? What will happen with that?
PAFFRATH: We believe that the folks who are homeless, after they see us with them working with them for 24 hours a day, 30 days straight, and even the next 30 day period, more and more are going to realize, wait a minute, this is different. And what happens is homelessness is very community-based, and when some folks start leaving, others start coming as well. What homeless folks are concerned about is overbearing — just like us as Californians, they’re worried about overbearing government. Like 7:00 p.m. curfews and no key to their own door. We’re going to [inaudible]. We’re going to give folks who are capable — if somebody is obviously in need of substantial mental health support, they will be provided for, but for those who are capable, they’ll have the right of coming and going whenever they want. We believe by inviting them to the various different facilities we’ll have throughout the state, they’re going to be very excited to come and actually have a bed and actually sleep in a way that’s not dangerous and it’s not cold and there’s actually climate control so they can build their dignity back. And so we have no concerns about people not wanting to seek help, especially once their community starts going and we show what we’re doing.
DW: Can you talk about your housing proposals? And this kind of goes into my next question, which is with the housing emergency, do you see the issue as one primarily driven by red tape, and will creating one agency be beneficial?
PAFFRATH: Both questions, the answer is yes. What we’re doing is we’ll declare a state of emergency on day one for housing, and every single building and safety department will come under the purview of the state. Now that doesn’t mean we want cities and towns to lose their design opportunities. We don’t want people to think we’re getting one cookie-cutter house for the entire state. But what we are going to do is we’re going to streamline building and safety substantially. First of all, 95% of permits can or will be able to be issued and signed off on with public records, so we know exactly who is responsible, who’s liability is on the hook, by licensed contractors, engineers, and architects. Now when it comes to — this means kitchen remodels. “Hey, we’re putting in a window here. Hey, we’re doing a minor little change to the floor plan here.” If licensed architects and engineers are certifying it with their liability contractors, we get [triple certs]. Fine, go ahead and approve your projects. All of these will be subject to state audit, but the state’s going to get massively out of the way of building and safety.
And we’re still going to have building inspections, but we’re going to spend way less time with the manpower that we have and women power in actual offices just doing homework for architects and engineers. That’s their job; that’s not our job. We spend, as a state, 90% of the building approval timeframe reviewing paperwork, and the amount of time that building inspectors spend actually making sure the right hardware is used, the right nails are used, the right beams are used, is a fraction of the paperwork side, which the actual product is more important, so that’s what we’re going to focus on.
Building and safety is going to be focused on streamlining approvals through licensed contractors, the state is licensing anyway. Now 95% of projects are able to be approved immediately, subject to the city coming whenever they want to check out projects that are ongoing. Very non-punitive relationship, but it’s all going to be focused on positive building and safety. And then for the other 5% of larger tracts, developments, guest-units, we’re going to work with businesses and developers to make sure that we can have streamlined, state-wide approval. If somebody says, “Hey look, we want to build 20 developments throughout the state of California and we want to partner with you. We want to use these five floor plans and we’ll use different designs for the various different areas. Can we get approval on that?” Absolutely. Let’s go. And then let’s make the modifications for designs per city specs and individual areas, but it’ll all be done statewide under one statewide authority, and then with individual minor review periods for design, again, to make sure we maintain that character.
But we’re actually going to free up California to build. We build 80,000 homes a year. We need to be building, just to keep pace with how unaffordable things are, we need to build 100,000 homes a year, but under my administration, my goal would be building 500,000 homes a year so we can actually get out of this affordability crisis.
DW: Do you anticipate any potential layoffs as departments, the 400-odd departments that you talk about in your proposal, sort of consolidate into one?
PAFFRATH: I don’t because we want more folks out and about working with our community. We want everybody to have the opportunity in the state to participate, and really what’s a revolution of taking the state back to the people. I’ll tell you, the people in planning and safety and the building safety department, they don’t want to have people coming into their office crying because of all the red tape in the six to 36 months people have to wait to get their dream home approved. It’s a disaster. It’s a nightmare. The people in the departments themselves, they’re not happy either with all the red tape, but it’s not their fault, it’s just their jobs, so you can’t blame them. We’re going to empower them to actually be a part of this change.
DW: In your energy proposal, you note that you would authorize “improvements to existing natural gas infrastructure to help transition us to a fully-green grid within the next 20 years,” with specific mentioning of wind and solar. Is there room for nuclear in your plan? It’s safe, efficient, and nearly carbon neutral. As it stands right now, multiple nations (including states in the United States) get large portions of their energy from nuclear — the most prominent being France at 71%, Belgium at 48%, Finland at 35%. And with the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant, which provides about 10% of California energy, going offline in 2024, why not consider building more nuclear plants?
PAFFRATH: I think it’s a very valid consideration. I do know that Germany went from a nuclear power to zero after Fukushima and it’s — I think the merits of nuclear deserve more research and investigation, and that would be a priority of ours because what we want is we want to go green. We want to see utility-scale batteries that are actually cost-effective next to fossil fuels so we aren’t relying on fossil fuels anymore, but we’re not also going to stand in the way and say, “Hey, the 1970s fossil fuel architecture you have, we’re not going to let you fix that up a little bit and improve it to make it 10, 15, 20 times more efficient” because that doesn’t make sense.
We can’t snap our fingers and go 100% green tomorrow. Just like even if we said, “Let’s go build new wind farms,” or if California was for it and the research made sense, and we found locations for it, and we found ways to store nuclear waste. Hey, if it made sense, let’s do it, but it’s not going to happen overnight. And so I think what we need is a very reasonable approach to this green transition, and our carbon tax proposal, which will be very moderate, is going to help us get there by not taxing workers and people’s incomes or their wealth when they’re investing, but instead by having minor taxes on things that have large carbon footprints. And by doing that, we inherently encourage companies to go more green.
DW: You said in your proposal that you want California to be the first state to institute a carbon tax. The Competitive Enterprise Institute writes of carbon taxes: “A carbon tax is a market-rigging policy, not a free market one. A carbon tax by design raises the cost of energy, making energy less affordable, diminishes economic growth, household income, and consumer purchasing power.” Are you concerned that what you’re seeing as incentivizing would not only increase energy prices for middle- and low-income individuals and act as sort of a regressive tax, but handicap the free market by picking winners and losers?
PAFFRATH: No, we don’t believe that at all. And the reason we don’t believe that is the research actually shows that if we get some of the ridiculous regulation out of the way that we do have, at least temporarily while we work toward our transition, we can actually substantially lower costs of energy while having a carbon tax.
Here’s just a quick example. Why is it that California gas is so expensive? It’s because we have no pipeline in California. It’s all truck. Now, I’m not proposing we build a pipeline throughout California, but there are many things we can do. We only have 11 oil refineries in California, and a lot of them are old and not as efficient as they could be — and this is oversimplifying — but many of them could use simple overhauls, simple remodels that would let them be more efficient for the next 10, 15 years as we go through our transition that would actually help us lower the cost of gasoline or even natural gas, for example, and help us prevent blackouts. But because we don’t have a common sense approach in California now and the approach of California now is, it’s all or nothing. It’s either, you’re all green or you don’t get to use anything, you can just use the crap you have now — what happens? No surprise. Gasoline costs are high, fossil fuel costs are very high, and so we can fix a lot of that at the same time as taxing it appropriately to encourage the proper change.
DW: We’ve seen a major spike in violent crime in the last year, and it’s been going on for the last several years, but the last year in particular has been particularly egregious. Can you walk me through what future policing looks like, and does it include sufficient funding for police to do their job?
PAFFRATH: Absolutely. Here’s the thing. Policing is — there’s a big societal issue around policing right now, and the way we want to start handling this issue is by encouraging much more community policing and mandating it in many cases. For example, we have many non-violent offenders in jails and prisons, and many of these are very capable folks that we can negotiate — probably not negotiate is the wrong word, but we can — what I’m trying to say is we can pick the proper folks who would be capable and not a flight risk to work in our community policing programs where maybe — just as an example, if we could take 30% of our jail and prison population that is non-violent and have them, during specific hours, do community service supervised, so it’s not release, it’s supervised community service. Now, all of a sudden what we’re doing is we’re taking officers who would be in jail and prisoners who would be in jail doing nothing except basically babysitting or being babysat, we can take them and bring them to our communities. We now [have a] police presence without weapons, we just need a presence, and we can provide by cleaning streets, by removing graffiti, by making sure areas are safer just by being there. Even just the presence of a mobile command unit and police vehicles or police vans and people cleaning, that helps reduce crime.
And so this is how we’re going to start, by making our communities better by making them cleaner, nicer, while being present, and now we integrate with the community again rather than this us-versus-them that we have now. That’s going to be our first step with community policing.
DW: On guns, you mentioned in your plan that you will have a tiered license plan, and it would be the first expansion of gun rights California has seen in decades. Do you have any plans to follow other pro-gun states by eventually enacting something like constitutional carry or something similar?
PAFFRATH: Here’s the thing. California is essentially — when you look at the states and the United States in general, California is basically at zero in terms of gun rights. And then way on the other end of the spectrum you have the Second Amendment.
California is not going to go from zero to Second Amendment tomorrow, and it’s not something any one person would even have the power to do. But what I will do is that on day one, we will introduce legislation to make sure that folks who do have legally-owned firearms have the opportunity through training certifications — or potentially even for lower income communities, some sort of free services from the government where we can certify weapons training — we will give folks the opportunity to actually get concealed carry licenses so that if they are rightful gun owners and they’re capable and they’re trained and they have minimum hours of training, they have the right to carry.
Now the good news is concealed carry is not associated with any increase in crime or even weapons violence, and that’s very, very important. But what we do have in California is a massive, massive issue with regard to what actually causes violent crime and oftentimes this comes from — again, when we talk about this with homelessness — lack of compassion for our fellow neighbors; lack of education. Poverty leads to despair; loneliness causes problems. We have a massive mental health crisis in the state. Mental health is stigmatized, and that stigma of mental health is reiterated in gun violence debates. We have many, many, many, many issues, but a priority that is going to be associated with gun rights in my administration will be better mental health services where insurance companies are actually mandated to pay market rates for normal therapy sessions.
And we want to normalize and teach in our future schools that therapy is not something that means you’re broken. It means you’re getting a professional service that should be just as normal as exercising or learning about nutrition. And so you can see with my gun plan, it all connects. It connects back to future school; it connects back to compassion. It’s an overarching theme, and all the pieces build upon each other.
DW: As for immigration, you mentioned legal immigration in your plan, but there’s no mention of what would happen to the approximately 2 – 2.6 million illegal immigrants living in California. Do you have any plans for how to handle the border and illegal immigration crises?
PAFFRATH: The disaster of our border and illegal immigration is really a symptom of how broken immigration is in our country. And it’s easy to point to the federal government and say it’s their problem because technically it is their problem, but we also have a lot of folks in our state who are here not legally. And so my vision is that California — if the federal government isn’t going to help us — that California needs to have its own way of providing a California-style path to legal immigration that’s fast. I’m talking a two week process. And see, when we have that, then we can actually invite people to California since we do a flight of people.
We can invite people to California who have skills, who have careers, and who have licenses in other countries because here’s what happens: because our immigration system is so broken right now, the only folks who end up coming to our border tend to be folks with no other opportunity and in utter despair, sometimes with — or sometimes potentially even often with no skills or abilities. This is a problem, so we get a lot of essentially refugees, but we don’t get skilled workers because there’s no easy way to immigrate. There are limitations on how many people can come, and so if we had a cleaner process for legal California immigration — we’ve got potential constitutional kinks to work out there — but if we can create a legal way for folks to come to California who can prove that they don’t need government aid, government assistance, we want to be able to open the door and let people move to California and contribute to our society, especially since we’re going to be working on expanding our school systems and our economy substantially. We’re definitely working on releasing a plan for that as well.
DW: Do you have any plans on expanding — in addition to future schools — expanding school choice for parents to either send their kids to charter schools or religious schools, or even for them to homeschool?
PAFFRATH: School choice is — the biggest school choice that we want to give folks is the choice of a future school; that’s going to be the top priority. A lot of our energy initially is going to be focused on our future schools because we want folks to have that opportunity. Regarding school choice and being able to move funding from potentially the government’s opportunities to charter schools or private schools, we don’t have an answer on that yet. That is something we’re working on and we’ll have more answers on that when we have our economic white paper since we are going to be eliminating so many taxes, we’ll have to circle back on that one when we actually have the data.
DW: Your plans are, without question, incredibly ambitious. Whether or not people will agree with every aspect of them, they are ambitious, and you seem to be genuinely seeking actual answers to problems that California’s facing — but you can’t do everything in your agenda without the cooperation of the legislature. Many of your ideas will be difficult for the California machine to endorse. It’s mostly Democrats, although there are a few Republicans. How would you work with the legislature to enact your agenda?
PAFFRATH: I believe the legislature is a group of very reasonable folks that haven’t had the proper leadership to come together and find out where we can actually make good happen. California has a super-majority of Democrats. It should be so easy to get things done in California, but it’s not because we’re torn in so many different directions because we get isolated into these national [inaudible] mix-up. You’re either this or you’re that, and that’s even within the Democratic Party. You’re either far-Left or you’re a moderate and it’s almost like we have parties within the parties.
And so my belief is that many of the problems we seek to solve are separated from partisanship. Homelessness, housing, schooling — these are very reasonable proposals. And we think with a reasonable Congress, which we know we have … reasonable people who just need leadership and somebody who’s willing to sit down with each and every single one of them to find the best solutions for the state and their districts, I’m very confident we’re going to get some amazing change done very quickly in California.
DW: And my last question: Is there something that we haven’t touched on in this interview that you think our readers/listeners should know about your candidacy and California in general?
PAFFRATH: Something that I think is very unique about this election is you’re really only selecting a governor in the recall election. If you vote yes on recall and yes on “Meet Kevin Paffrath for governor,” you’re only selecting a governor for one year. It’s almost like you’re getting a one-year free trial on a governor, which I think is so wonderful because usually you elect a politician for four years and then you’re stuck with them for four years, at least for governor. And so by having this one-year free trial, to me, I look at this as, why not? Why don’t we elect “Meet Kevin Paffrath” as governor, and let’s see what happens. Let me prove that in the first 60 days, we can make dramatic changes [with] homelessness. That we can actually change housing and traffic and begin the process of change.
A lot of these things won’t be overnight, but we’re going to see massive progress more than we’ve ever seen before in government. And I’ve got to get a lot done within a year to prove to voters that they should re-elect me for the 2022 cycle, which would give me another four years — and I’d be done at five years because you get a two-term limit in California. But anyway, to me, I think this is one of the best opportunities for change and it’s the best timing, market timing to make this happen because we have a business cycle that is giving us a wind at our back to make some beautiful changes for the better of California.
DW: Kevin Paffrath, thank you for taking the time to talk to me.
PAFFRATH: Thank you so much.Mothers of black men and women killed in several high-profile police-involved shootings are taking aim at the national Black Lives Matter organization and its outgoing co-founder, Patrisse Cullors, for profiting off the deaths of their loved ones and then ducking accountability.
The mothers of Tamir Rice, Breonna Taylor, and others are lashing out just as Cullors steps down, accusing both BLM and Cullors of using their children’s deaths to raise money but failing to pass the money on to black families in need.
“I don’t believe she is going anywhere,” said Samaria Rice, the mother of 12-year-old Rice, who was shot by Cleveland, Ohio, police who mistook his toy gun for a real weapon, told the New York Post. “It’s all a facade. She’s only saying that to get the heat off her right now.”
Lisa Simpson, whose son was shot in Los Angeles, California, added. “Now she doesn’t have to show her accountability. She can just take the money and run.”
Cullors announced that she was stepping down from her position at the helm of the Black Lives Matter movement on Friday, following news that she engaged in a “real estate binge” that saw the BLM co-founder splash out more than $3 million on four private residences.
The Daily Caller also reported that Cullors “had used her position as the charity’s leader to funnel business to an art company led by the father of her only child. Charity experts said BLM’s arrangement with the art company, Trap Heals, amounts to self-dealing and raises ethical and legal questions.”
Cullors, though, claims her resignation is not the result of these controversies, telling media that the allegations “were right-wing attacks that tried to discredit my character, and I don’t operate off of what the right thinks about me.”
Rice and Simpson, though, told the Post that Cullors has problems with more than just the right. Rice told the Post that “she first sought out Cullors to enlist the group’s help in re-opening a federal investigation into her son’s 2014 death. She said she exchanged a few emails with Cullors over the years, but had never managed a face-to-face meeting.” Simpson said that Black Lives Matter raised $5000 for her son’s funeral but never delivered the check.
In a statement posted in March, the two women lashed out at BLM for leaving them “clueless and broken.”
“We never hired them to be the representatives in the fight for justice for our dead loved ones murdered by the police,” the pair said. “The ‘activists’ have events in our cities and have not given us anything substantial for using our loved ones’ images and names on their flyers. We don’t want or need y’all parading in the streets accumulating donations, platforms, movie deals, etc. off the death of our loved ones, while the families and communities are left clueless and broken.”
Last month, Tamika Palmer, Breonna Taylor’s mother, echoed the pair in a social media post of her own.
“I have never personally dealt with BLM Louisville and personally have found them to be fraud (sic),” Palmer wrote.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Rashard Turner, the founder of a Black Lives Matter chapter in St. Paul, Minnesota, revealed in a video published last week that he quit the organization after he “learned the ugly truth” while being an insider in the far-left group.
Turner made the remarks in a video published by TakeCharge, a black-led organization that rejects critical race theory and woke culture.
In the video, Turner says in part:
I was born in Minneapolis in 1985. We called the north side home at that time, 18th and Queen. When I was two years old, my father was shot and killed. My mother wasn’t able to take care of me. So I was raised by my grandparents. They told me that if I was going to change my life for the better, education was the answer. So I worked hard in school, I got into Hamlin University and earned a college degree, first in my family. Then I went on to earn a master’s in education from St. Mary’s University of Minnesota. I am living proof that no matter your start life, quality education is a pathway to success. I want the same success for our children in our communities. That’s why in 2015, I was a founder of Black Lives Matter in St. Paul. I believed the organization stood for exactly what the name implies, black lives do matter. However, after a year on the inside, I learned they had little concern for rebuilding black families, and they cared even less about improving the quality of education for students in Minneapolis. That was made clear when they publicly denounced charter schools alongside the teachers union. I was an insider in Black Lives Matter. And I learned the ugly truth. The moratorium on charter schools does not support rebuilding the black family. But it does create barriers to a better education for black children. I resigned from Black Lives Matter after a year and a half. But I didn’t quit working to improve black lives and access to a great education.
WATCH:
TRANSCRIPT:
I was born in Minneapolis in 1985. We called the north side home at that time, 18th and Queen. When I was two years old, my father was shot and killed. My mother wasn’t able to take care of me. So I was raised by my grandparents. They told me that if I was going to change my life for the better, education was the answer. So I worked hard in school, I got into Hamlin University and earned a college degree, first in my family. Then I went on to earn a master’s in education from St. Mary’s University of Minnesota. I am living proof that no matter your start life, quality education is a pathway to success. I want the same success for our children in our communities. That’s why in 2015, I was a founder of Black Lives Matter in St. Paul. I believed the organization stood for exactly what the name implies, black lives do matter. However, after a year on the inside, I learned they had little concern for rebuilding black families, and they cared even less about improving the quality of education for students in Minneapolis. That was made clear when they publicly denounced charter schools alongside the teachers union. I was an insider in Black Lives Matter. And I learned the ugly truth. The moratorium on charter schools does not support rebuilding the black family. But it does create barriers to a better education for black children. I resigned from Black Lives Matter after a year and a half. But I didn’t quit working to improve black lives and access to a great education. Today, I serve as the President and Executive Director of Minnesota Parent Union. We’re dedicated to helping parents move their children from failing schools, to successful schools. It’s hard work, and we’re up against forces that don’t want us to succeed. But success is possible. Just look at me and the hundreds of children and families we’ve helped to pursue a great education, break the chains of poverty and lead a life of success.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The former CIA director and secretary of state under President Donald Trump says the Wuhan Institute of Virology is “still up and running” — the same lab from which the virus that causes COVID-19 may have originated according to the Biden administration, which is now demanding an investigation from lawmakers.
“That virology lab is still up and running. It’s still probably conducting the same kinds of research it was conducting that may have well led to this virus escaping from that laboratory,” Mike Pompeo said on Fox News.
Pompeo said there is “enormous evidence” that SARS CoV-2, which causes COVID-19, escaped from the lab.
“What I can say for sure is this: we know that they were engaged in efforts connected to the People’s Liberation Army inside of that laboratory, so military activity being performed alongside what they claimed was just good old civilian research,” Pompeo said. “They refuse to tell us what it was, they refuse to describe the nature of either of those, they refused to allow access to the World Health Organization when it tried to get in there.”
Experts agree that the pandemic originated in Wuhan, but social media outlets like Facebook and others have, until recently, banned posts that say the virus originated in a lab. In the last few weeks, though, reports have circulated that the virus may have originated in the Wuhan facility, and even members of President Joe Biden’s cabinet are demanding answers.
The Wall Street Journal last week reported that three researchers from the Wuhan Institute were hospitalized in November 2019 with symptoms consistent with COVID-19, according to a previously undisclosed U.S. intelligence report.
“The details of the reporting go beyond a State Department fact sheet, issued during the final days of the Trump administration, which said that several researchers at the lab, a center for the study of coronaviruses and other pathogens, became sick in autumn 2019 ‘with symptoms consistent with both Covid-19 and common seasonal illness,’” The Journal reported. “The disclosure of the number of researchers, the timing of their illnesses and their hospital visits come on the eve of a meeting of the World Health Organization’s decision-making body, which is expected to discuss the next phase of an investigation into Covid-19’s origins.”
With Republicans on Capitol Hill demanding more information about where the virus originated, Dr. Anthony Fauci — who has repeatedly declared it came from a bat — appeared to double back on his earlier suggestion that the virus moved from animals to humans.
A top Biden cabinet member last week demanded that the World Health Organization (WHO) launch a more “transparent” investigation into the origins of COVID-19 as Republican lawmakers seek answers and top scientists admit the virus could have come from a Chinese lab.
Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra on Tuesday said in an address to the World Health Assembly, a conference organized by the WHO, that independent experts worldwide must be allowed to “fully assess the source of the virus and the early days of the outbreak.”
“The COVID-19 pandemic not only stole a year from our lives, it stole millions of lives,” Becerra said. “Now we must honor our departed by taking urgent action this year — to strengthen health security and pandemic preparedness so that we are better prepared for the next global health crisis.”
Other top U.S. health officials have also begun to muse about the origins of the virus. The director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last week said it is “possible” the virus was “lab-based.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Former Attorney General William Barr issued a stark warning during a recent speech about what is happening inside of America’s public education system and how Americans can take action to stop it.
Barr made the remarks while speaking at the Alliance Defending Freedom’s annual Edwin Meese III Award for Originalism and Religious Liberty.
Barr warned that the “increasingly militant and extreme secular-progressive climate in our state-run educational system” was the “greatest threat to religious liberty in America” and that too many people are only looking at the problem in relation to what it means for national unity and not what it means for long-term religious liberty in America.
Barr gave the following two examples of the types of things happening inside America’s public education system:
Other top lines from Barr’s speech:
WATCH:
TRANSCRIPT:
WILLIAM BARR, FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: This morning I want to take a few moments and talk about what I think is the greatest threat to religious liberty in America today and that’s the increasingly militant and extreme secular-progressive climate in our state-run educational system.
Over the past 12 months, there’s been a great deal of discussion about the radical ideology being promoted in our schools, and what it means for national unity. Much less has been said on the issue of what it means, what the long term consequences are for religious freedom.
This indoctrination in my mind is the greatest threat that religious liberty faces today. We’re rapidly approaching the point—if we have not already reached the point—at which the heavy-handed enforcement of secular-progressive orthodoxy through government-run schools is totally incompatible with traditional Christianity and other major religious traditions in our country. In light of this development, I think we have to confront the reality that it may no longer be fair, practical, or even Constitutional to provide publicly-funded education solely through the vehicle of state-operated schools.
Let me begin with an observation about the purpose and nature of education. Throughout Western history, the two have really been inseparable. Education and religion were combined, they were integral to one another. Education started off as a religious project. They’re inherently bound together and I think the whole idea of being able to separate them is actually a fallacy because education is more than just balancing your checkbook or vocational training, it’s really about at the end of the day, it’s really about the big questions. It’s about, is there truth? How do we know the truth? Why am I here? What is it to live a good life? Are there things that I have duty to do or not have a duty to do? These are the questions that every human being has and education really cannot be given without addressing or touching upon these issues.
So the idea that you could hermetically seal off education from religion is a relatively novel idea. And I think the experience of the past half century has refuted it quite spectacularly. The fact is, we’ve been able up until recently to finesse the problem, because in fact, the United States was relatively culturally homogeneous and committed to traditional Judeo Christian values in the general sense, and so we were able to finesse this issue. I see the approach to public schooling and the relationship it has to religion as having proceeded through three distinct phases. The early advocates of public education back in the 1830s and 1840s, Horace Mann in the common school movement up in Massachusetts, they saw public schools as performing two missions. One inculcating a sense of common identity, of common civic and cultural bonds, of forging v. Unum out of Pluribus. That was one mission. But the mission that interests me today is their second one, which was the moral formation of our citizens and building a moral character.
And in the first phase, the advocates of public school agreed that religion was integral to education. Their position was you cannot separate moral education from religion. And so they explicitly incorporated religion into schools. They did so through an anodyne form of Christianity, which was composed of all the sort of core or key documents of the various Protestant denominations. And they subtracted out the ones that there was sharp disagreement over. So you sort of got to the, the common denominator of general Christianity sometimes referred to as pan Protestantism was the religious focus of the public school system. And the view was you should teach religion that’s common to all, at least common to all Christians. And that was the system in the United States and all of us know that Catholics and Jews set up their own school system precisely because they didn’t like the religious approach being taken in public schools. So there you have it for over 100 years, the tension between religion and public schooling was resolved because there was explicit recognition that religion had to be included. The second phase came in the latter part of the 20th century. And this is when the left embarked on a relentless campaign of secularization intent on driving every vestigial of religion from the public square.
Public schools quickly became the central battleground for this effort. So this was where the idea arose, where that you could actually isolate education from religion. And the idea was that you would completely secularize education by stripping away the vestiges of religion or a religious belief system. So it was secularization by subtraction. That was the second phase. And despite the the effort to forcibly secularize schools, they still had this vague notion that school should be about moral instruction as well. And the framing of character. But the rich Judeo Christian tradition was replaced by sort of trite, talk about liberal values like, you know, be a good person and, you know, be caring of others. But there were no underpinnings for these values. What passed for morality had no metaphysical foundation. It’s very hard to teach someone they ought to do something, unless you’re able to explain to them why they ought to do something. So values and public school during this second phase were really nothing more than mere sentimentality, still drawing on the vapor trails of Christianity. And it was a vain attempt to have familiar sounding ethics and morals but without God. But when you take away religion, when you strip away religion, you’re left with a moral vacuum.
And that leads us to phase three, because things were sort of benign, up until recently, relatively benign, compared to what we’re seeing around us today. We no longer see secularization by subtraction. We’re now seeing an affirmative indoctrination with a secular belief system and worldview, that is a substitute for religion, and is antithetical to the beliefs and values of traditional God centered religion. In other words, purging schools of any trace of religion created a vacuum and we are now seeing a substitute system, an explanatory system as a substitute being affirmatively interjected into public education, and it is subversive of the religious worldview. Now, in many places, in our country, the state of our public schools is becoming an absurdity that is scarcely to be believed. While an astonishing number of public schools fail to produce students proficient in basic reading and math, they spare no effort or expense in their drive to instill a radical secular belief system that would have been unimaginable just a few years ago. Consider this one example. Earlier this year an Iowa Public School District, Iowa, taught transgenderism and homosexuality to students at all grade levels, including preschool as part of the Black Lives Matter at school week of action program. The school district distributed children’s coloring book that teaches on a page, I saw it, it says, everyone gets to choose if they are a girl, or a boy, or both, or neither, or someone else, and no one else gets to choose for them. Now, one thing we know, this is not established science, it is a moral, psychological, and metaphysical dogma of the new progressive orthodoxy. In fact, until recently, virtually no one in America had heard of these radical notions. Yet now they are thoroughly institutionalized in many public schools, and in some states, students are permitted to select new genders without the consent of their parents.
Now, this is not a matter of isolated ideas sort of occasionally popping up in such a discreet and fleeting way that they sort of don’t do much harm. What is taking shape is a full blown, may I say, systemic subversion of the religious viewpoint. While the secularists may view each lesson such as transsexualism as a discrete subject, these lessons embodied broader ideas that are fundamentally incompatible with the religious worldview. Telling children that they get to choose their gender and no one else has anything to say about it doesn’t just contradict particular religious teachings on gender and the authority of parents. It is a broadside attack on the very idea of natural law, which is integral to the moral doctrines of a number of traditional religions. Now, as of this school year, about 1/5 of Americans live in states that mandate LGBTQ curriculum in public schools. In the absence of a statewide mandate, curriculum are frequently adopted in particular school districts. These new laws often prohibit opt outs for parents. In Orange County, California, for example, the Board of Education issued an opinion that, quote, ‘parents who disagree with the instructional materials related to gender, gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation, may not excuse their children from this instruction.’ But this only really scratches the surface. This gender and sexuality agenda only scratches the surface of the kinds of things being taught in public school these days.
In recent years, across the country, we’ve seen this rush to embrace critical race theory. Now critical race theory is nothing more than the materialist philosophy of Marxism, substituting racial antagonism for class antagonism, that’s all it is. It posits all the same things as traditional Marxism, that there are meta-historical forces at work, that social pathologies are the result of societal conventions and power structures that have to be torn down. That conflict between the oppressed and the oppressors provides the dynamic and progressive movement in history, and that the individual morality to the extent there is such a thing in a materialist philosophy, is determined by where one fits in with these [historical forces]. And since it’s very inception, Marxism I’m talking about, just about everyone from the Catholic Church on down, I don’t mean to really suggested direction down from the Catholic Church, but from the Catholic Church on down, has observed that traditional Marxism is fundamentally incompatible with Christianity. It posits a view of man and man’s relationship to society and to other individuals that is just antithetical to the Christian viewpoint. Now, it seems to me that for the government to get into the business through public school indoctrination of students and secular belief systems that are directly contrary to religion of the students, the beliefs for the students, and the families raises fundamental constitutional problems. It certainly raises a free exercise problem. As the Supreme Court has recognized, there’s nothing more fundamental as a part of religious liberty and a part of our basic liberties, than the right of parents to pass along religion to their children, and it’s monstrous, for the state to interfere with that by indoctrinating students into altered alternative belief systems. So it seems to me that if a school is going to propose to teach a child that they get the pick their gender, and no one else has anything to say about it, that’s infringing on the free exercise of religion.
I also think we’ve reached the point where the establishment clause is implicated. When we’re no longer talking about stripping religion out of the school curriculum and now talking about indoctrination into an affirmative belief system, a new credo, resting on materialist metaphysics, and substituting for religion, then the question is whether this involves the establishment of religion. I’m not the first to observe that the tenants of progressive orthodoxy have become a form of religion, with all the trappings and hallmarks of a religion. It has its notion of original sin, of salvation, it has its clergy, it has its penance, it has its dogmas, its sensitivity, that whiff of any heresy, and even the burning at the stake. So far only metaphorically. The decades long secular project has ended up by proving the truth of the late writer David Foster Wallace when he said, ‘There’s actually no such thing as atheism. There’s no such thing as not worshiping. Everybody worships. The only choice we get is what to worship.’ Indeed, secular progressivism has already recognized, it has already been recognized as a religion in the courts, when it suits the secularists. So when non-believers saw a conscientious-objector status during World War II, the second circuit construed the phrase ‘religious training or belief’ to include that anything that is ‘equivalent to what has been thought a religion or thought a religious impulse.’ The Supreme Court followed suit in a similar case during the Vietnam War. Instead of a belief system in the Supreme Being, as the relevant statute required, the Supreme Court held that the objector to military service need only demonstrate a belief that is sincere and meaningful, and occupies a place in the life of its possessor, parallel to the that filled by traditional religion. So in other cases, implicating the free exercise, the court referred in passing to secular humanism, Buddhism and Taoism as examples.
But while secularism has been afforded the protection of the religious clauses, it has generally not been the subject or subject to the prohibitions in the Constitution. And this creates an often overlooked constitutional double standard, particularly when it comes to education. The courts, in fact, have foreseen the potential for secularism itself, becoming an established state religion, and one of the first cases, abolishing school prayer, the Supreme Court acknowledged that the state may not establish a religion of secularism, in the sense of affirmatively opposing or showing hostility to religion. Thus preferring those who believe in no religion over those who believe. It’s time to consider whether our public schools as currently constituted are doing exactly that. If secular, progressivism indeed occupies the same place as religion, and by all appearances it does, then how is it constitutional to have state run schools fervently devoted to teaching little else? And how on earth can these institutions be allowed to use the state to punish traditional religious doctrines as hate speech? The current posture of public schools raises another question. Other than providing public funding for basic education, the other purpose of it was to effectuate the melting pot, to instill a sense of common identity to promote a solidarity among students as Americans. But now the schools have taken the opposite mission of separating us, of teaching unbridgeable differences, of dividing us into many different identities destined to be antagonistic. If that’s the purpose of education now, to separate us from each other, to drive us apart, then why shouldn’t we have diverse school system?
The time has come to admit that the approach of giving militantly secularist government school a monopoly over publicly funded education has become a disaster, it is deformed. It has deformed and impoverished the very nature of the educational enterprise, first by purging it of any moral or spiritual dimension, and then by trying to substitute for religion, an irreconcilable rival value system. Parents wishing to opt out from the government secular progressive madrassas are subject to a harsh penalty in the form of private school tuition that most cannot afford. As a result, our public schools have inevitably become cockpits for a vicious winner take all culture war over the moral formation of the next generation. It doesn’t have to be this way. Public funding of education does not require that instruction must be delivered by means of government-operated schools. The alternative is to have public funds travel with each student, allowing the student and the parents to choose the store.
In this environment, vouchers may be the only workable and the only constitutional solution. And they would promote diversity in education. And the left talks about diversity, they are not for diversity, they’re for standardization. Diversity is freedom. Diversity is the ability to live your life and to hold views that may not be compatible with with the dominant cultures. It’s freedom. And we stand for diversity. And there’s nothing to fear from diversity. There’s nothing to fear from schools that parents set up for the education of their children. The other thing about it is it addresses I think, the real issue of systemic racism in our country, which is our public school system in the inner cities, where we’ve relegated inner city school children to these failing schools, depriving them of a future, depriving them of opportunity. That’s the system of systemic racism. So President Obama waltzes into Washington, President Obama waltzes into Washington, enrolls his two daughters in the most exclusive private school there, Sidwell Friends, and one of his earliest acts is the terminate a broadly supported and bipartisan program in the District of Columbia that provided scholarships to inner city kids to go to parochial school. So, confronting this issue, I think, is the most urgent task for people are concerned about religious liberty. Religious liberty is not safe in the United States as long as we have the kind of public school system we have, the forced monopoly and the indoctrination of children into these radical secular progressive orthodoxies. Thank you very much.Vice President Kamala Harris appeared to do a little damage control on Sunday, posting a tweet on Twitter that paid tribute to members of the military just a day after what many considered a tone deaf post.
“Throughout our history our service men and women have risked everything to defend our freedoms and our country. As we prepare to honor them on Memorial Day, we remember their service and their sacrifice,” Harris wrote in the Sunday post.
Throughout our history our service men and women have risked everything to defend our freedoms and our country. As we prepare to honor them on Memorial Day, we remember their service and their sacrifice. — Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) May 30, 2021
On Saturday, the vice president posted a photo of herself smiling, writing simply: “Enjoy the long weekend.”
Enjoy the long weekend. pic.twitter.com/ilGOrod4AW — Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) May 29, 2021
Social media exploded with outrage after Harris’ Saturday tweet.
“Real misfire here. It is a long weekend. It’s also Memorial Day weekend, which means far more that our government officials should acknowledge: a time to remember and honor the millions of Americans who lost their lives in our nation’s defense,” Paul Szoldra, editor of military news site Task & Purpose, wrote on Twitter.
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) finished Harris’s short sentence by writing: “… and pay tribute to the courageous men and women of our nation’s military who sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties.”
“Care to mention WHY we’re having a long weekend, Kamala?” Rep. Lauren Boebert (R-CO) wrote.
Others were more harsh.
“No pictures of our Fallen hero’s, just which angle do I look best in? Narcissistic @VP. PS when do you think you could get to our border crisis? Maybe over the ‘Long Weekend’ would be a good time?” one Twitterer wrote.
“This is my Uncle Walter, Madame Vice President,” wrote another person. “He won’t be enjoying the ‘long weekend’ because he was KIA at Peleliu in September 1944, advancing with his fellow Marines to take the island’s airfield. Obliterated by an enemy artillery shell. He had just turned 18.”
@GrayConnolly This is my Uncle Walter, Madame Vice President. He won't be enjoying the "long weekend" because he was KIA at Peleliu in September 1944, advancing with his fellow Marines to take the island's airfield. Obliterated by an enemy artillery shell. He had just turned 18. pic.twitter.com/8SsqsJoRXQ — natehale (on Gab @Nate_Hale) (@natehale) May 30, 2021
Another posted a tribute to his father. “I pulled this from my dad’s WWII memoir. He was a Marine. Maybe instead of a glamor shot of herself, she can tweet just one photo of soldier, sailor, airman or marine who died in combat? Maybe honor the fallen instead of herself? Maybe too much to ask.”
I pulled this from my dad's WWII memoir. He was a Marine.
Maybe instead of a glamor shot of herself, she can tweet just one photo of soldier, sailor, airman or marine who died in combat?
Maybe honor the fallen instead of herself? Maybe too much to ask. pic.twitter.com/SEmxLxqqXt — JimThompson (@JimmySportToons) May 30, 2021
Air National Guard Lt. Colonel Adam Kinzinger blasted her tweet as “tone deaf.” “Enjoy your freedom purchased by many who died for it. Tone deaf,” he tweeted.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, press secretary for former President Donald Trump, said that even her seven-year-old son “understands what this weekend is about.”
“Show some respect for the heroes who paid the ultimate price for our freedom,” she tweeted.
Not everyone was assuaged by Harris’ Sunday tweet.
“I thought it was a ‘long weekend’ to you?????? Don’t pretend you care about our military or those who have made the ultimate sacrifice defending our country,” one person wrote.
Joseph Curl covered the White House for a dozen years and ran the Drudge Report for four years. He can be reached at josephcurl@dailywire.com and on Twitter at @JosephCurl.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.“U.S. officials do not know for sure the destination of the Iranian ships, these officials said, but believe they may be ultimately headed for Venezuela. Iran’s intent in sending the vessels in the direction of the Western Hemisphere remains a mystery, the people said, as does their cargo,” Politico noted. “The two countries — both of them facing severe U.S. sanctions — have developed closer ties over the last few years, with cooperation ranging from gasoline shipments to joint car and cement factory projects.”
The Makran is particularly of concern to American officials after Iran made a point of claiming that the ship could serve as a mobile command platform from which Iran could launch “electronic warfare” efforts and handle “special operations.” The ship reportedly serves, also, as a floating airbase with a fleet of drones and helicopters.
The Iranian military has threatened American interests recently, most notably in April, when a “group of boats from Iran’s elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps harassed two U.S. Coast Guard ships earlier this month in the Persian Gulf,” according to The Wall Street Journal. “The larger vessel repeatedly crossed in front of the bows of the two U.S. vessels, the Monomoy and the Wrangell, coming as close as 70 yards away, officials said. That forced the [American ship] to make defensive maneuvers to avoid a collision, Navy officials said.”
Both incidents — the harassment in April and the potential threat of two Iranian warships in the Western hemisphere — come as the Biden administration considers re-entering a 2015 deal between the Obama administration and the Iranian government, abandoned by the Trump White House, over concerns Iran was not abiding by an agreement to limit their own nuclear capabilities.
The latest incident also comes as American officials worry Iran is also testing whether it can launch missiles from naval vessels. In January, two warships took part in “missile drills” off the coast of Oman, per Reuters. That exercise also involved the Makran as well as a “missile-launching ship called Zereh.” It is not clear whether the Zereh is the second ship reportedly skirting the coast of Africa.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and a number of House Democrats are plotting to put together a “select committee” in order to investigate the January 6th riots at the United States Capitol following a vote in the Senate that tanked Democrat hopes for a “January 6th Commission,” according to CNN.
On Saturday, Democrats failed to marshal enough votes to overcome a filibuster, losing in an effort to create a “9/11-style commission” to investigate the origins of and security failures during the January 6th incident. Republicans voted against the commission, largely because of concerns that the Democrat-drafted bill would create a partisan committee rather than ensure a neutral investigation.
Several competing bills, drafted by “moderates” and Republicans and designed to create a bipartisan commission to investigate the rally and subsequent attack on the Capitol, also failed. Nine Republicans and two Democrats did not vote.
On Sunday, CNN noted that Pelosi and other House Democrats, who backed the probe, are now considering a new plan: forming a “select commission” in the House to investigate the riots, without a bipartisan consensus.The Michigan Court of Appeals ruled Friday that a recall effort, aimed at unseating the state’s Democrat governor Gretchen Whitmer, can move forward, agreeing with the state’s Board of Canvassers, which approved several recall petitions.
Local Detroit media reports that the court “affirmed the board’s approval of seven petitions, six seeking to recall Whitmer and one seeking to recall Lt. Gov. Garlin Gilchrist II. One additional recall petition was remanded to correct a ‘scrivener’s error’ in stating the date on which an order was issued.”
Of the six recall petitions, five are aimed at Whitmer’s handling of the pandemic and one is aimed at a trip to Israel that Whitmer took in 2019 before the pandemic began.
Whitmer has, as The Daily Wire reported, been under fire for her behavior during the pandemic, at first approving a policy similar to one in New York, demanding that nursing and adult care facilities accept recovering coronavirus patients regardless of whether they remained contagious or tested positive for the virus.
Last week, lawyers for the conservative Mackinac Center Legal Foundation suggested that Whitmer’s administration “undercounted” nursing home deaths, according to Fox News, and that the official tally — 5,600 — could be far lower than the actual tally. Michigan’s government contends that it is difficult to separate nursing home deaths from other COVID-19 deaths.
Whitmer has also been caught breaking her state’s own COVID-19 regulations. Last week, she was seen in photographs attending a gathering at an East Lansing, Michigan, restaurant with at least ten other people, despite a state rule mandating that only six individuals can sit together inside a restaurant. As a result, Whitmer pledged to lift the restriction on July 1st.
Just days earlier, an investigative report revealed that Whitmer had defied her own recommendations about traveling during the pandemic, flying to Florida on a private jet to visit her ailing father. Whitmer insisted that taxpayers did not pay for her trip and that it was purely to check on her parent, not a “spring break” jaunt, but Whitmer did not specify what kind of travel Michigan residents should avoid, only that they should stay out of the state of Florida over concerns about COVID-19 variants.
Five of the recall petitions take aim at Whitmer’s COVID-19 leadership directly. Whitmer’s administration fought most of the petitions not on the basis of content but on the theory that they were ambiguous and vague, under Michigan’s recall rules.
The court’s decision, MLive noted, does not mean the recall effort will make the ballot.
“The petitions do have a high bar to clear to get recalls approved. According to state law, the recall petitions would need more than one million signatures in 60 days,” the outlet noted Saturday. “In order for the petitions to go on the August ballot, they would have had to meet the deadline in April. It is unclear if they could end up on the November ballot, which is meant for local elections this year. That deadline is July 30.”
Whitmer’s office responded to the decision by labeling the recall petitions a Republican plot.
“We plan to appeal this disappointing decision and we fully intend to beat back these irresponsible partisan attacks against the Governor in the courts, on the streets, or at the ballot,” the governor’s spokesperson told media in a statement. “This is part of a massive and coordinated attack by Republicans trying to make the Governor fail and our campaign will strenuously oppose these efforts so the Governor can keep saving lives, reopening our economy, and creating jobs.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Saturday, Arkansas GOP Sen. Tom Cotton and Texas GOP Rep. Dan Crenshaw, both military veterans, teamed up to release a whistleblower form for military members to fill out if they spot any “woke” training efforts.
Crenshaw tweeted, “Enough is enough. We won’t let our military fall to woke ideology. We have just launched a whistleblower webpage where you can submit your story. Your complaint will be legally protected, and go to my office and @SenTomCotton.”
Enough is enough. We won’t let our military fall to woke ideology. We have just launched a whistleblower webpage where you can submit your story. Your complaint will be legally protected, and go to my office and @SenTomCotton.https://t.co/4FstasB7Tm — Rep. Dan Crenshaw (@RepDanCrenshaw) May 28, 2021
Crenshaw added, “With written permission we will anonymously publish egregious complaints on social media and tell the country what’s happening in our military. For too long, progressive Pentagon staffers have been calling the shots for our warfighters, and spineless military commanders have let it happen. Now we are going to expose you.”
For too long, progressive Pentagon staffers have been calling the shots for our warfighters, and spineless military commanders have let it happen. Now we are going to expose you. — Rep. Dan Crenshaw (@RepDanCrenshaw) May 28, 2021
The whistleblower form states:
We advise that whistleblowers use your personal resources and contact information when communicating submitting this form, and that you do not use your work equipment or work contact information. Further, do not submit classified information or other information barred from release through this form or by email. Various U.S. laws at the federal, state and local level prohibit retaliation against whistleblowers for providing information to Congress. However, you still take serious risks when you report allegations of wrongdoing. We recommend that you consult an attorney experienced in whistleblower law for further guidance. We respect your confidentiality, and we will use your contact information only to follow up with you regarding your submission. You may submit a disclosure anonymously. However, please be aware that anonymous disclosures may limit our ability to respond to the information that you provide. All submissions will be shared confidentially with the office of Senator Tom Cotton.
Rep. Mike Rogers, the ranking GOP member on the House Armed Services Committee, has echoed, “My Republican colleagues and I hear regularly from active-duty and retired service members that even holding conservative values is now enough to endanger a service member’s military career.”
Last Sunday, Crenshaw took note that the new “woke” recruitment videos released by the U.S. Army had precipitated so much criticism that comments on the videos on YouTube were shut down. He fired, “I hope the message to military leadership is clear: We aren’t going to stand by as our military becomes another institution crippled by woke political correctness. No more critical race theory, no more identity politics, no more political witch hunts. We’ve had enough.”
I hope the message to military leadership is clear: We aren’t going to stand by as our military becomes another institution crippled by woke political correctness. No more critical race theory, no more identity politics, no more political witch hunts. We’ve had enough. https://t.co/H0ppSOUp0p — Dan Crenshaw (@DanCrenshawTX) May 23, 2021
The Washington Times reported, “The Army earlier this week acknowledged that it has cut off the comments section on the videos. Laura DeFrancisco, a spokeswoman for the Army Enterprise Marketing Office, said the decision was made after a ‘significant uptick in negative commentary’ in the comments section of the spots.”
Crenshaw is a retired lieutenant commander with the United States Navy and was formerly a Navy SEAL. According to his campaign website’s “about” section, he “graduated from Tufts University in 2006, where he earned his Naval officer commission through Navy ROTC.” After graduation, he reported immediately to SEAL training, where he excelled, and then deployed to Fallujah, in Iraq — the first of five tours of duty serving his country overseas.
Crenshaw lost his eye on his third deployment. “After six months of combat operations,” Crenshaw’s official biography notes, “Dan was hit by an IED blast during a mission in Helmand province, Afghanistan.” He lost his right eye and his left was badly damaged. After undergoing several surgeries, Crenshaw returned to service, deploying twice more.
Cotton deployed to both Afghanistan and Iraq, and he served in combat units including the 506th Infantry Regiment and the 101st Airborne.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.HBO host Bill Maher slammed the media and left-wing activists during his most recent episode of “Real Time with Bill Maher,” saying that if those people who attacked Israel during its most recent conflict with Palestinian terrorists had to live in Gaza for one day that they would be running toward Israel.
Maher lambasted the idea that Israel committed war crimes during the conflict earlier this month, correctly noting that Palestinian terrorists fired well over 4,000 rockets at Israel and that organizations like Hamas place the rockets in civilian areas.
“This is another thing I’ve heard last couple of weeks, words like ‘occupiers’ and ‘colonizers’ and ‘apartheid’, which I don’t think people understand the history there,” Maher said. “The Jews have been in that area of the world since about 1,200 BC, way before the first Muslim or Arab walked the earth, 1,000 years before. I mean, Jerusalem is their capital. Okay, so if it’s just about who got there first, it’s not even close. There have been a continuous Jewish presence.”
“The Jews were the ones who were occupied by everybody,” Maher continued. “The Romans took over at some point, and then the Persians and the Byzantines and then the Ottomans. So yes, there was colonization going on there. Beginning in the 20th, 19th century, they started to return to Palestine, which was never an Arab country. There was never a country called ‘Palestine’ that was a distinct Arab country.”
“And, you know, as far as Gaza goes, it’s amazing to me that the progressives think that they’re being progressive, by taking that side of it, the Bella Hadid’s of the world, these influencers,” Maher later added. “I just want to say, in February of this year, a Hamas court ruled that an unmarried woman cannot travel in Gaza without the permission of a male guardian. Really? That’s where the progressives are? Bella Hadid and her friends would run screaming to Tel Aviv, if they had to live in Gaza for one day.”
WATCH:
Watch: Bill Maher absolutely destroys the prevailing anti-Israel narrative, calling out the hypocrisy of Instagram celebs like Bella Hadid, “Bella Hadid and her friends would run screaming to Tel Aviv if they had to live in Gaza for one day.” pic.twitter.com/WR0sZ7oRUU
TRANSCRIPT:
BILL MAHER, HBO HOST: This was, after all, a war with Gaza. Thank God Israel treats its Arab citizens better than Egypt, Syria, or Saudi Arabia treat their Arab citizens. I didn’t see much of that in the press. I was glad to see you say it. Can you put some bones on that? Why do you say they treat their citizens better? Their Arab citizens.
NICHOLAS KRISTOF, NYT: So, I mean, I also said a lot more. And clearly within Israel … Arab citizens, obviously vote, they can serve in the Knesset, they can be judges. Some of the most robust organizations speaking up for Palestinians are organizations like [inaudible], the human rights organization. That does not happen in Egypt, which obviously massacres Egyptians who support democracy, we’ve seen what happens in Syria. But I would also say that, you know, I made that point for context, I think it’s important to understand that, that Israel at home truly is robust. But, you know, I don’t think that’s a defense for Israel, engaging in possible war crimes in Gaza, or engaging–
MAHER: Well Gaza fired 4000 rockets into Israel, what would you say Israel should have done instead of what they did? So how could you not — ?
KRISTOF: So, I mean, international lawyers are pretty clear that they have a right to defend themselves. They have a right to respond at military targets. But there was a sense that the response was probably a war clime, because it did not sufficiently avoid civilian casualties.
MAHER: But they purposely put the rockets in civilian places. That’s their strategy.
KRISTOF: Yeah. Well, likewise, Israel’s defense ministry is in a civilian area. I mean, both sides do this, partly because they’re private countries. I do think that Hamas, particularly does this. And I think that’s war crime on the part of Hamas and clearly Hamas is engaging in war crimes when it shells Israel.
MAHER: War is a crime. I mean, it seems like a silly argument when people go to war, I mean, there are certain things that are beyond the pale. This seems like, I mean, it was a normal war, people die in war. It’s a horrible thing. But–
KRISTOF: But I mean, there, we have developed laws of war precisely to restrain the inhumanity of war. We don’t allow chemical weapons–
But I don’t know how well you respond to when– I mean, what if Canada, fired 4,000 rockets into America. Or Mexico, which is even better analogy, because we actually did steal the land from Mexico. I would submit that Israel did not steal anybody’s land. This is another thing I’ve heard last couple of weeks. Words like ‘occupiers’ and ‘colonizers’ and ‘apartheid’, which I don’t think people understand the history there. The Jews have been in that area of the world, since about 1,200 BC, way before the first Muslim or Arab walked the earth, 1,000 years before. I mean, Jerusalem is their capital. Okay, so if it’s just about who got there first, it’s not even close. There have been a continuous Jewish presence. Yes. The Jews were the ones who were occupied by everybody. The Romans took over at some point, and then the Persians and the Byzantines and then the Ottomans. So yes, there was colonization going on there. Beginning in the 20th, 19th century, they started to return to Palestine, which was never an Arab country. There was never a country called ‘Palestine’ that was a distinct Arab country. And yes, there was a problem there because there was two people who wanted to share the land, which is why the UN in 1947 said, ‘Okay, we’re going to partition it.’ We have the map, I want to show, people forget what the map looks like. This is what was on the table at the beginning, the green is the part that the Arab population would have gotten. It’s a good part of the country. It’s the good part. A lot of it. Look what Israel has a little sliver by the coast and the desert in the south. That second map is what Israel has today. Yes, it is a lot more, but doesn’t it behoove the people who rejected the treaty, the half a loaf, and then continue [to] attack, Hamas’s charter says they just want to wipe out Israel, their negotiating position is you all die.
KRISTOF: I mean, there’s a difference between this defending Hamas, which I agree, commits war crimes and I would accept that I think, too often in liberal circles, there has been a tendency to ally the repression of Hamas, the homophobia of Hamas, and misogyny of Hamas, but that also does not excuse Israel, ruling Palestinians in the West Bank, for example, without giving them any vote, taking water and giving it to settlers, and maybe most important, damaging any possibility down the road of creating a two state solution. You know, how do we avoid a war when somebody is shelling some of your neighbors, shelling you? That’s hard. But what we can do is try to create a two state solution 10 years from now. And the way you do that is you don’t build up settlements right now in the West Bank. And you don’t create this division, where a Palestinian you don’t seize their homes in Sheikh Jarrah.
MAHER: I would agree with that and I think a lot of Israelis do too.
KRISTOF: Not enough to elect–
MAHER: Well because again, I mean, first of all, the two state solution has been on the table a number of times, there could be a Arab capital in East Jerusalem now if Yasser Arafat had accepted that in 2003, he did not. I mean, they have rejected this and went to war, time and time again. And, you know, as far as Gaza goes, it’s amazing to me that the progressives think that they’re being progressive, by taking that side of it, the Bella Hadid’s of the world, these influencers. I just want to say, in February of this year, a Hamas court ruled that an unmarried woman cannot travel in Gaza without the permission of a male guardian. Really? That’s where the progressives are? Bella Hadid and her friends would run screaming to Tel Aviv, if they had to live in Gaza for one day.
KRISTOF: I mean, I’ve been Gaza any number of times and ordinary Gazans complain about Hamas all the time. I did not perceive Bella Hadid as defending Hamas. I saw her as speaking up for you know, 57 kids in Gaza who were killed.
MAHER: Well, she’s ‘from the river to the sea, Palestine will be free,’ I think but she chanted with people. That is a PLO slogan that means Israel from the river to sea, that there will be no more Israel. You want to say something about this?
JAMES CARVILLE, DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST: Well, I was kind of glad to listen because do I want to step on the landmine? No. But just to buttress Nick’s point a little bit, if I understand, they’re about to form a government, including the Arab Party. Once you’re apart of a government, you need just three votes in the Keenest to get to 61–
MAHER: Which no ‘apartheid’ state ever did. An apartheid, we think of a South Africa, which is, the white people in Britain and Holland, who never had any claim to the land or history there, came thousands of years later and just took it over. That’s a little different. And then they kept it as a apartheid state because they just wanted the power. The Israelis, they have made mistakes, but it’s an apartheid state because they keep getting attacked. If they don’t keep a tight lid on this s**t, they get killed. That seems like something different.
KRISTOF: For the same reason that you admire Israeli democracy, and that you admire the fact that Arabs within Israel have the vote, then shouldn’t those Palestinians in the West Bank have a vote for the people who rule the [inaudible]?
MAHER: But again, Israeli Arabs do have a vote and they’re in the parliament, unlike in an apartheid–Southwest Airlines has levied a lifetime ban on a woman who was allegedly recorded punching a flight attendant while on a trip from northern to southern California last week. The flight attendant was left bloodied and reportedly lost two teeth in the confrontation.
Vyvianna Quinonez, the 28-year-old passenger accused of confronting the flight attendant, appears to have been set off around the time the flight was preparing to land, according to video footage, reports The Washington Post. The video shows a woman lunge up and punch the flight attendant in the face, causing the Southwest Airlines employee to begin bleeding.
Video obtained by CBS News shows the moment a Southwest Airlines flight attendant was punched by a passenger after asking her to keep her seat belt fastened during a flight from Sacramento to San Diego Sunday. https://t.co/gQusevodYC pic.twitter.com/oOYvPdwCFj — CBS News (@CBSNews) May 27, 2021
Several seconds later, the confrontation still ongoing, a male passenger jumps between the two and demands the woman sit down, telling her, “Don’t you dare touch a flight attendant like that.”
Port of San Diego Harbor police officers boarded the plane after it landed at San Diego International Airport and arrested Quinonez. She was charged with felony battery.
“According to witnesses, an altercation between a passenger and a flight attendant had taken place during the flight. During the altercation, the passenger struck the flight attendant, causing serious injuries,” said Port of San Diego Public Safety.
Although there isn’t evidence that alcohol played a role in the confrontation, the airline has decided against resuming alcohol service due to an increase in “passenger disruptions,” according to CNN, which reportedly obtained an internal Southwest Airlines memo.
According to The New York Times, American Airlines decided Saturday against renewing alcohol service as well, saying in a memo that “alcohol can contribute to atypical behavior from customers onboard and we owe it to our crew not to potentially exacerbate what can already be a new and stressful situation for our customers.”
Shortly before Southwest circulated its memo, Southwest announced Quinonez was banned from flying with them again. A spokesperson for Southwest told CNN that the woman had “been advised this decision is final” and cannot be appealed.
A least one passenger told the KCRA-3 that she believed the flight attendant was partially to blame for the incident.
“She had made like three requests for [the flight attendant] to back up and she didn’t,” said the passenger.
The passenger told the news agency that she also had a negative experience with that flight attendant, but hers was over pretzels and masks. “As I was putting one in my mouth, she was walking by and she said ‘put your mask back on.’ I just looked at my daughter and I was like, okay,” she said.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Remains from hundreds of children have been found at a long-since closed Canadian residential school, an indigenous group said Thursday. The school was one of many places where the Canadian government took indigenous children who had been removed from their families for forced assimilation.
The remains were detected near the site of the Kamloops Indian Residential School, which opened in 1890, reports the Toronto Star. Although no remains have been excavated, a ground-penetrating radar specialist helped confirm the remains of 215 children by the school.
Chief Rosanne Casimir of the Tk’emlups te Secwépemc First Nation responded in a statement Thursday, saying: “Given the size of the school, with up to 500 students registered and attending at any one time, we understand that this confirmed loss affects First Nations communities across British Columbia and beyond.”
The age of the children isn’t clear, but Casimir said some were as young as three, reports the Toronto Star.
Kamloops, which was operated by the Catholic Church and then by the state in its final years, was one of many residential schools the Canadian government forced indigenous children to attend, reports The Associated Press. The schools took in more than 150,000 kids, and as many as 6,000 of them died, including an estimated thousands from abuse or neglect.
“The news that remains were found at the former Kamloops residential school breaks my heart – it is a painful reminder of that dark and shameful chapter of our country’s history,” said Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a statement. “I am thinking about everyone affected by this distressing news. We are here for you.”
The news that remains were found at the former Kamloops residential school breaks my heart – it is a painful reminder of that dark and shameful chapter of our country’s history. I am thinking about everyone affected by this distressing news. We are here for you. https://t.co/ZUfDRyAfET — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) May 28, 2021
The Canadian government, in a 2015 Truth and Reconciliation report, determined many of the children who attended these schools were lonely, undernourished, and overworked. “For the students, education and technical training too often gave way to the drudgery of doing the chores necessary to make the schools self-sustaining. Child neglect was institutionalized, and the lack of supervision created situations where students were prey to sexual and physical abusers,” reads the Truth and Reconciliation Commission report.
The schooling system, the government determined in the report, was for much of its existence “an education system in name only” and amounted to “cultural genocide.”
“States that engage in cultural genocide set out to destroy the political and social institutions of the targeted group. Land is seized, and populations are forcibly transferred and their movement is restricted. Languages are banned. Spiritual leaders are persecuted, spiritual practices are forbidden, and objects of spiritual value are confiscated and destroyed. And, most significantly to the issue at hand, families are disrupted to prevent the transmission of cultural values and identity from one generation to the next,” reads the preface to the 2015 Truth and Reconciliation Commission report. “In its dealing with Aboriginal people, Canada did all these things.”
After the Catholic Church ceased operating Kamloops in the 1960s, the Canadian government briefly ran it as a day school until 1978. Gordon’s Indian Residential School, the last of the Canadian residential schools for indigenous children, closed permanently in 1996.
The process of surveying the grounds by Kamloops is ongoing, and a report will likely be completed in June. Casimir said Friday that more remains may be found as well, according to The Associated Press.
This article has been revised for clarity.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The media ignored a 2020 intelligence community assessment that COVID-19 may have originated in a Chinese laboratory and instead chose to portray the very idea as “racist,” a former intelligence official said Saturday afternoon.
Ric Grenell, the Trump administration’s acting Director of National Intelligence, incisively deconstructed the media narrative on “CNN Newsroom with Jim Acosta” just after 4 p.m. Eastern on Saturday afternoon.
Grenell noted that the nation’s intelligence communities came together to issue a joint statement on the origins of the coronavirus global pandemic in April 2020.
“The entire intelligence community believed either that it was an animal-to-human transmission or the Wuhan lab,” he said.
The U.S. intelligence community closed the statement, which is still available on the ODNI website, by pledging “to rigorously examine emerging information and intelligence to determine whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan.”
But the media ignored the second half of the statement, that the virus potentially originated at a laboratory like the Wuhan Institute of Virology, for nearly a year, Grenell said.
For much of 2020, legacy media outlets called any statement that the novel coronavirus may have spread to the rest of the world from a lab “baseless,” a “conspiracy theory,” or a racial attack to divert attention from President Trump’s allegedly inadequate response to the pandemic. Those media outlets have now tried to say that “new” intelligence has made the Wuhan lab story “suddenly” credible.
“I have to be clear, there has been no intelligence released that contradicts or adds to the last statement from 2020,” Grenell said. “Nothing has changed except for the media newsrooms suddenly now are charged up about something that they should have been charged up [about] in April 2020.”
Instead, “the entire D.C. political establishment and media newsrooms all focused on this as a racist comment towards China,” he said. “The narrative was more of a racist tone towards China.”
Acosta asked him, “What do you mean, Ric, when you say that?”
Grenell replied, “We have a thing called the German measles, but nobody says, ‘Hey, if you say the German measles, it’s somehow racist.’ What we mean by that is that it started in Germany. Whether it’s the African flu, or the German measles, or saying that COVID-19 started in China, that’s a very accurate statement.”
He added that “the intelligence community I was in charge of [was] backgrounding reporters to say, ‘Hey, this is not political. This started in China.’”
Acosta, who clashed publicly with President Trump numerous times during his administration, tried to blame the media’s dereliction on the former president.
“Ric, you say we’ve unfairly accused the president of being racist at the time, he did also use the term ‘Kung Flu,’” Acosta pushed back. “If he wasn’t being racist in saying these things, why was he saying things like the ‘Kung Flu’?”
Grenell said the media are free to critique any president’s words, tone, or actions. “All I’m saying is, if you look at the 2020 statement, it was clear that the intelligence community said that this was China, and yet it was wildly dismissed by our media in Washington and the political establishment,” Grenell said.
Acosta abruptly brought Grenell’s media criticism to an end by interrupting him and saying, “Let me ask you about something substantive here.”
He then asked if Grenell was optimistic that the People’s Republic of China would be forthcoming about the origins of the virus.
Grenell, a former spokesman to the United Nations, said China had aggressively infiltrated the leadership of U.N. agencies since at least the George W. Bush administration.
“I have zero faith the WHO is ever going to do anything but what the Communist Party of China wants it to do,” he added.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.Actor Matthew McConaughey defended universal masking, describing it as a “short-term inconvenience for long-term freedom.”
Speaking on “The Carlos Watson Show,” McConaughey said that “no data” exists showing the negative effects of masking.
“I’m not believing you’re really scared of this little cotton thing. I’m not believing you really feel that takes away your identity and your freedom,” he said on the show, as reported by The Hill. “This is a short-term inconvenience for long-term freedom.”
“There’s no data that says it’s not a good [thing]. No data that says it’s harmful,” he added. “Let’s all take one for the team here.”
Regarding his rumored run for Texas governor, the Academy Award winner said he does not want to place a bunch of Band-Aids on a problem.
“I’m not interested in going and putting a bunch of Band-Aids on that are gonna be ripped off as soon as I’m out,” he said. “I’m interested in building something that can last, and I’m measuring what category that is. I don’t know if that’s politics.”Vice President Kamala Harris faced backlash Saturday for neglecting to mention fallen military personnel or veterans in a tweet that commemorated Memorial Day weekend with an image of herself.
“Enjoy the long weekend,” Harris wrote along with her own picture.
Enjoy the long weekend. pic.twitter.com/ilGOrod4AW — Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) May 29, 2021
“Remember when Biden & Harris promised all that ‘dignity’ if they won?” Fox News host Laura Ingraham asked.
Remember when Biden & Harris promised all that “dignity” if they won? https://t.co/58m1EiQEcj https://t.co/rCciSqbjmZ — Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) May 29, 2021
“…and pay tribute to the courageous men and women of our nation’s military who sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties,” tweeted Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY).
…and pay tribute to the courageous men and women of our nation’s military who sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties. #MemorialDay2021 https://t.co/9QUwwuhqHe — Lee Zeldin (@RepLeeZeldin) May 29, 2021
“This is unreal,” wrote Newsmax contributor and retired U.S. Marine Corps gunnery sergeant Jessie Jane Duff. “No regard or gratitude for the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation. Could you possibly be more obtuse, @VP?”
This is unreal. No regard or gratitude for the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation. Could you possibly be more obtuse, @VP?#MemorialDay #MemorialDayWeekend #Freedom https://t.co/QtgwGZpwLG — Jessie Jane Duff (@JessieJaneDuff) May 29, 2021
“Comforting words to the families of those that lost loved ones in service to our country. With a picture of herself for good measure,” wrote Arthur Schwartz. “Imagine the meltdown that @jaketapper would be having if Donald Trump tweeted this.”
Imagine the meltdown that @jaketapper would be having if Donald Trump tweeted this. https://t.co/ibud831bOn — Arthur Schwartz (@ArthurSchwartz) May 29, 2021
“[J]ust remember, it’s not ‘the Republicans’ who make the argument that Republicans are the only pro-military pro-patriotism culture party,” wrote Fox News contributor and U.S. Marine Corps veteran Joey Jones.
just remember, it’s not “the Republicans” who make the argument that Republicans are the only pro-military pro-patriotism culture party. https://t.co/FzIm7aTDpN — Joey Jones (@Johnny_Joey) May 29, 2021
“Oh, lord…. try ‘Reflect on our freedoms and the [heroes] who died to protect it, this Memorial Day Weekend.’ Could you be more obtuse or callous?” wrote Center for American Liberty attorney Harmeet K. Dhillon.
Oh, lord…. try "Reflect on our freedoms and the heros who died to protect it, this Memorial Day Weekend." Could you be more obtuse or callous? https://t.co/kjTzLKO30H — Harmeet K. Dhillon (@pnjaban) May 29, 2021
“This is her #MemorialDay2021 tweet,” wrote Newsmax journalist John Cardillo. “We’ve been at war for 20 years and she didn’t mention a word about all of those heroes we lost. She tweeted about a long weekend with a photo of herself. This is reprehensible.”
This is her #MemorialDay2021 tweet. We’ve been at war for 20 years and she didn’t mention a word about all of those heroes we lost. She tweeted about a long weekend with a photo of herself. This is reprehensible. https://t.co/tjbtnch10u — John Cardillo (@johncardillo) May 29, 2021
“This is a wildly tone-dead and stupid tweet,” tweeted Daily Caller journalist David Hookstead. “I’m sure the families of our fallen heroes won’t spend a ton of time smiling during ‘the long weekend.'”
This is a wildly tone-dead and stupid tweet. I’m sure the families of our fallen heroes won’t spend a ton of time smiling during “the long weekend.” https://t.co/cKmHZUOail — David Hookstead (@dhookstead) May 29, 2021
“Thank you for this photograph and for your service this Memorial Day,” journalist Stephen L. Miller sarcastically tweeted.
Thank you for this photograph and for your service this Memorial Day. https://t.co/DwNKvPFj5W — Stephen L. Miller (@redsteeze) May 29, 2021
“Memorial Day is a ‘Long Weekend’ and an excuse for Kamala to post a photo of herself — grotesque,” wrote Turning Point USA chief creative officer Benny Johnson.
Memorial Day is a “Long Weekend” and an excuse for Kamala to post a photo of herself — grotesque https://t.co/cDfzVdGBzn — Benny (@bennyjohnson) May 29, 2021
Harris has faced accusations of not showing requisite respect to the military before. As The Daily Wire reported:
Vice President Kamala Harris has broken a tradition maintained by at least the last two of her predecessors and skipped saluting military guards before boarding Air Force Two. Harris was captured on video Monday walking past servicemen without saluting before boarding the jet. Former Vice Presidents Mike Pence and Joe Biden each maintained the practice of saluting servicemen before boarding and after exiting the plane during their tenures, according to Fox News. “DISGRACEFUL: @VP Kamala Harris refuses to salute the honor guard at the steps of the aircraft. It is a clear demonstration of her dislike for those in uniform, both law-enforcement and military,” former NYPD Commissioner Bernard Kerik wrote in a caption of the video posted to Twitter.
WATCH:
DISGRACEFUL: @VP Kamala Harris refuses to salute the honor guard at the steps of the aircraft. It is a clear demonstration of her dislike for those in uniform, both law-enforcement and military. pic.twitter.com/7QFHzamnt7 — Bernard B. Kerik (@BernardKerik) March 23, 2021
Related: Kamala Harris Breaks Precedent, Skips Saluting Military Before Boarding Air Force Two
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.It’s been a rough year, to say the least, with a global pandemic, the election of the most dangerous, leftist presidential administration ever, and a media and institutional elite in this country who are essentially Marxist functionaries.
Summer and beach reading might provide some needed relief. But before you pack your bags and head to the sun and the sand, here’s a recommendation for a fun book to take along.
It’s a western like no other (except maybe its prequel, “Armstrong,” which I read and much enjoyed a couple of years ago). Written by H.W. Crocker III, it’s called “Armstrong Rides Again!” and it imagines the continuing adventures of George Armstrong Custer after he survived the Battle of the Little Bighorn and became an incognito marshal and soldier of fortune.
In this tale, he meets up with a few real-life characters such as Black Bart and Ambrose Bierce and gets involved in an entirely make-believe Latin American civil war. The book is action-packed — a real page turner — and hilarious at the same time.
Not only does this book provide recreational distraction from deeply troubling headlines and the cares of the day but it has, beneath the surface, a surprisingly deep and affirming conservative message — one that doesn’t interfere with its entertainment value. If anything, it adds to it, because you know the author is on your side. (I know this for certain because, full disclosure, Harry Crocker is a friend of mine.)
“Armstrong” was great, but “Armstrong Rides Again!” is one of those cases where the sequel is even better. In “Armstrong,” the conservative themes were subtler; here, they are more direct, but in an amusing way, as in the comical monologues of the ruler of the imaginary Latin American country.
There’s a lot in this book about the nature of a just government, loyalty, religion, the fetishization of “science” (what could be more timely?), the hypocrisy and self-serving nature of the liberal establishment, the essential importance of history and patriotism — all as retold by our incomparably courageous narrator, George Armstrong Custer, who battles American Indians, revolutionaries and spies with equal aplomb while matching wits with his own on-again, off-again ally: the sardonic, skeptical martial Ambrose Bierce.
You’ll also meet a priest who designs submarines; a former Confederate officer-turned-federal agent; a multilingual, theologically minded American Indian scout; a suave, villainous turncoat whom the modern reader might liken to certain modern-day “principled conservatives”; and, of course, the Latin American ruler El Caudillo. Picture Donald Trump as the head of a Latin American monarchy and you might get some idea of what the character is like; he’s the man whose counterrevolutionary cause Custer joins.
The book, written as a letter to Custer’s wife, Libbie, is endlessly quotable, but perhaps these opening paragraphs will be enough to entice you: “I write this from a study with a window overlooking the ships in San Francisco Bay. Beside me, smoking a cigar and criticizing my every word, is Major Ambrose Bierce, the journalist. He would rather tell this tale himself — he is the professional writer after all — but as you know, dearest Libbie, I can turn a handsome phrase myself, and this is our tale, Bierce’s and mine, and would not have happened had we not crossed paths (and swords), and I can tell it plainly, unadorned by journalistic exaggeration.”
“My last letter chronicled how I liberated Bloody Gulch, Montana — and a fine, rousing story it was. But it left you hanging precipitously wondering what happened next. Now I can tell you.”
“I had to flee. The U.S. Cavalry was on its way — and much as I love the Cavalry, I had to preserve my anonymity. A sorrowing world believes I am dead, and I cannot disabuse it of that mournful conclusion until I can prove that my men and I were betrayed into catastrophe at the Little Bighorn.”
Who could stop reading after that! Do yourself a favor. Buy this book; let it entertain you while reminding you of the things that matter most in life; and pass it along to your older kids. They’ll get a kick out of it, too. As Andrew Breitbart famously said, “Politics is downstream from culture.” Isn’t it nice to have some popular culture of our own for a change? Thank you, Harry. Long may Armstrong ride!
The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.
David Limbaugh is a writer, author and attorney. His latest book is “Guilty by Reason of Insanity: Why the Democrats Must Not Win.” Follow him on Twitter @davidlimbaugh and his website at www.davidlimbaugh.com. To read features by other Creators Syndicate writers and cartoonists, visit the Creators Syndicate webpage at www.creators.com.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.“Blue’s Clues & You,” which is a Nick Jr. cartoon for young children, recently featured an LGBT pride parade with non-binary animals and a cartoon drag queen to celebrate Pride Month.
The parade features a cartoon version of Nina West, which is the drag name of Andrew Levitt, who narrates as float after float of LGBT animals passes by. First is a lesbian gator family, followed by a gay bear family; after them come non-binary dolphins, transgender beavers, as well various other asexual, bisexual, and pansexual animals.
“Love is love is love, you see, and everyone should love proudly and we’ll all go marching in the big parade!” the drag queen sings.
WATCH:
As Yahoo News reported, “Lindz Amer of the great kids’ video series Queer Kid Stuff consulted on the Blue’s Clues video, which takes us marching along the Pride route one by one, then two by two, etc., showcasing different families along the way. It’s a terrific celebration of families and goes further than many kids’ shows in its range of queer inclusion.”
“Blue’s Clues & You” also recently featured a special video titled “Celebrating Pride Month With Blue & Josh! Opening Mail,” during which very young children instructed their viewers about LGBT families and what the different Pride flags mean. A young boy showed off pictures of him attending a Pride parade with his two lesbian mothers. “My brother and my mom and I go to a parade and we dance like this,” he says beneath a rainbow and LGBT flag.
“At a Pride parade we get to see all different kinds of families,” the boy continues. “Some have two moms like I do. Some have two dads. Some have a mom and a dad. And some go by ‘they.’ Some families have one parent and some have a lot of people in the family. There’s all kinds of different kinds of families. They love celebrating Pride with mine!”
WATCH:
LGBT representation in children’s programming is becoming increasingly common. As The Daily Wire reported in April:
Nickelodeon star Michael D. Cohen issued a message to children earlier this week urging them to celebrate friends who exhibit transgender behavior. “It’s really important to celebrate International Trans Day of Visibility,” Cohen told young viewers. “Because the more the world understands, is aware of, and supports people of trans experience, the more empowered this community will be to have our rights and to have what we deserve and to be equal like everybody else.” “I’m proud to be a part of the trans community because we are united by a common pursuit of our own personal truth,” continued Cohen, who played a character named Schwoz in the show “Henry Danger,” which aired from 2014 to 2020. “There are most likely people of trans experience in your school, your community, friends, family. You can support them by standing up against bullying, cheering them on as they express themselves.”
Related: ‘Rugrats’ Reboot To Feature Single Lesbian Mom
Related: Disney Rolling Out Children’s Cartoon Featuring 14-Year-Old Activist With Interracial Gay Dads
Related: Transgender Nickelodeon Star Urges Children To ‘Cheer On’ Trans Friends ‘As They Express Themselves’
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.On Friday afternoon, California Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom announced that he signed an executive order to launch an independent probe in the case of a death row inmate whose quadruple murder conviction has been questioned for more than three decades.
The investigation is in response to a clemency request from Kevin Cooper, 63, a black man who was sentenced to death for the 1983 killings of Douglas and Peggy Ryen, their ten-year-old daughter Jessica, and Christopher Hughes, an 11-year-old unrelated house guest. According to the Los Angeles Times, “they were found hacked and slashed to death in a Chino Hills home…stabbed a total of 143 times with an ice pick, an ax and a knife.”
8-year-old Joshua Ryan survived the attack and later told law enforcement and a social worker that the killers were three white men, then said they were Latino, and later claimed Cooper was not the murderer after seeing him on television.
Cooper had escaped from a prison in Chino two days before the slayings.
The Times reported that “Cooper has maintained his innocence throughout and has accused law enforcement of planting evidence and ignoring statements by witnesses that could have helped exonerate him.”
“The investigation will review trial and appellate records in the case, the facts underlying the conviction and all available evidence, including the results of the recently conducted DNA tests previously ordered by the Governor to examine additional evidence in the case using the latest, most scientifically reliable forensic testing,” a news release from Newsom’s office said.
Friday-afternoon-before-holiday-weekend NEWS: Gov. @GavinNewsom has ordered a new investigation of all evidence in case against death row inmate Kevin Cooper, whose murder conviction has been questioned for years https://t.co/fJmGp88xEc — Laurel Rosenhall (@LaurelRosenhall) May 28, 2021
The governor’s order references “starkly different views” of how new DNA test results “should be interpreted and the reliability and integrity of certain evidence.”
Newsom, who is facing the threat of a recall, said in the order that he takes “no position regarding Mr. Cooper’s guilt or innocence, or whether to grant executive clemency,” but needs “to be satisfied that all relevant evidence is carefully and fairly examined.”
He appointed the international law firm of Morrison and Foerster, LLP to serve as Special Counsel to the Board of Parole Hearings during the investigation.
Norman Hile, an attorney representing Cooper, told the L.A. Times that the legal team is “gratified” by Newsom’s decision, adding, “We are confident that a thorough review will demonstrate that Kevin Cooper is innocent and should be released from prison.”
More from The Times:
San Bernardino County Dist. Atty. Jason Anderson said the new DNA evidence confirms that Cooper is guilty of the murders, and he criticized Newsom for ignoring the findings of the jury in Cooper’s criminal trial and decades of judicial decisions that confirmed his guilt. “We would ask the executive branch to respect the findings of 38 years of decision making within the judicial branch that’s confirmed Kevin Cooper’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt every time,” Anderson said. “There are no unanswered questions. So for this to be ordered is inappropriate.”
Governor Newsom also announced on Friday that he had granted 14 pardons, 13 commutations, and 8 medical reprieves. He has granted a total of 86 pardons, 92 commutations, and 28 reprieves since taking office.
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.The reboot of the classic Nickelodeon children’s cartoon “Rugrats” will reimagine one of the characters as an openly lesbian single mother.
“Rugrats,” which ran throughout the 1990s until 2004, launched Thursday as a new series of the same name on the streaming service Paramount Plus, which is owned by ViacomCBS.
“Nickelodeon is reuniting members of the original voice cast behind iconic toddlers Tommy Pickles, Chuckie Finster, Angelica Pickles, Susie Carmichael and Phil and Lil DeVille in the upcoming all-new Rugrats animated series,” read a press release from Nickelodeon.
Most of the characters will be the same as they were in the original series, though Betty, who is the mother of twins Phil and Lil, is now a single lesbian mom. Natalie Morales, who is openly queer, voices the character, and recently explained to entertainment website the A.V. Club how she wishes there had been more gay characters in cartoons when she was growing up.
“Betty is a single mom with her own business who has twins and still has time to hang out with her friends and her community, and I think it’s just so great because examples of living your life happily and healthily as an out queer person is just such a beacon for young queer people who may not have examples of that,” Morales said.
“And yeah, Betty is a fictional cartoon, but even cartoons were hugely influential for me as a kid and if I’d been watching ‘Rugrats’ and seen Betty casually talking about her ex-girlfriend, I think at least a part of me would have felt like things might be okay in the future,” Morales added.
“Some things to know about this updated version of Betty: She loves football, owns a café called Betty’s Beans, and she cracks jokes about her ex-girlfriends,” the A.V. Club further reported. “Now all we need is to know her thoughts on sharing a name with Taylor Swift’s gayest song. We’ll get to find out more about this new version of Betty when the show premieres May 27 on Paramount+.”
More and more children’s programming has been getting LGBT representation. As The Daily Wire reported about an upcoming reboot of a Disney cartoon from the 1990s:
Disney is revamping “The Proud Family,” a 20-year-old cartoon sitcom about an African American family, and will be featuring a cast that includes two interracial gay dads whose adopted daughter is a teenage racial activist. Actors Zachary Quinto and Billy Porter, both of whom are gay, will be playing Barry Leibowitz-Jenkins and Randall Leibowitz-Jenkins, respectively, according to Entertainment Weekly (EW). The two are a couple and mixed-race adoptive parents to Maya Leibowitz-Jenkins, a 14-year-old black activist voiced by Keke Palmer.
Related: Disney Rolling Out Children’s Cartoon Featuring 14-Year-Old Activist With Interracial Gay Dads
Related: Transgender Nickelodeon Star Urges Children To ‘Cheer On’ Trans Friends ‘As They Express Themselves’
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.A man accused of using a BB gun to shoot out the window of a car traveling on a Southern California freeway was charged with three counts of attempted murder on Friday following a series of similar reported incidents in the area.
Additionally, Jesse Leal Rodriguez, 34, of Anaheim, was charged with three more counts of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury.
The charges involve three occupants of a Tesla that was shot at on the 91 Freeway about 1:30 pm on Tuesday, May 25, near Norco, about 30 miles east of Anaheim. Neither the driver of the Tesla nor the passengers were injured.
Rodriguez is currently charged with only attacking one car, but according to the Southern California News Group, investigators with the California Highway Patrol (CHP) believe Rodriguez “fired at and damaged at least six other vehicles.” CHP estimates approximately 100 vehicles have been shot at with a BB or pellet gun and vandalized while traveling on Southern California freeways over the past month. Many of those reported incidents occurred along Highway 91 in Los Angeles, Orange, and Riverside counties.
The Riverside County D.A.’s Office anticipates more charges could be filed against Rodriguez in the future as investigators and CHP continue to review leads and sift through videos from freeway cameras.
We have filed 3 counts of attempted murder against an Anaheim man for firing a BB gun at a moving vehicle. If you have information about these incidents or have been a victim & not reported it, call the CHP tip line at (714) 288-6336. News release here: https://t.co/eQsBJ2aN7a pic.twitter.com/wHVFENrap6 — Riverside County DA's Office (@RivCoDA) May 28, 2021
“Shooting at moving vehicles with a BB gun or pellet gun while traveling at high speed on our roads or freeways is incredibly dangerous,” said Riverside County District Attorney Mike Hestrin. “Shooting out windows of cars could easily startle drivers in traffic and cause a major accident. We are all relieved that no one was seriously injured by these crimes.”
A journalist with the Southern California News Group interviewed Rodriguez from jail on Friday night, where he reportedly “emphatically denied that he committed any of the shootings.”
“Not one person has reported that they saw me shoot,” Rodriguez told the reporter from behind a glass partition that separated the two.
The Riverside County D.A. provided more details of Rodriguez’s arrest in a news release:
Around 1:30 p.m. on May 25, a Tesla was shot at with a BB gun in the area of Hamner Avenue and Hidden Valley Parkway in Norco. Captured on the vehicle’s video system at the time the vehicle’s window was shot out was a maroon Chevrolet Trailblazer. The incident was reported to the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department which then notified CHP. There were two passengers with the driver of the Tesla, with all three being victims in this case. Based on the vehicle description provided by witnesses, CHP officers, assisted by Riverside police, pulled over a maroon Chevrolet Trailblazer about 9:30 p.m. in a shopping center parking lot in the area of Magnolia and Tyler avenues. The driver, Rodriguez, was arrested and a BB gun, BBs, and other related items were found in his vehicle.
Rodriguez is being held at the Robert Presley Detention Center in Riverside on $750,000 bail. He is scheduled to be arraigned on Tuesday, June 1. According to the district attorney’s office, “If convicted as currently charged, Rodriguez faces a potential maximum sentence of 15 years plus 42 years to life in prison.”
The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.When a police officer in Arkansas answered a call about a girl’s puppy being run over, he also learned how sad the traumatic incident made her feel.
On May 13, the Jonesboro Police Department (JPD) received a call from a woman named Terri about her daughter Jessica’s dog being killed, the department said in a Facebook post.
“Jessica was heartbroken. Officer Lane Cohn responded to the call and Jessica’s hurt pulled at his heartstrings,” the post read.
The following day, Cohn got in touch with the Jonesboro Animal Control (JAC), the JPD Community Outreach Office, and Terri regarding a special plan he had to remedy the situation.
On May 18, the officer spoke with his coworkers about adopting a puppy from JAC for the girl, and the officers donated every penny needed to do it, including its shots and surgeries.
A few days later, Officer Cohn and Officer Jones gave the special surprise to Jessica at her home along with a goody basket from the JAC that had food, a leash, harness, dog beds, and more gifts tucked inside:
🐾 On Thursday, May 13, JPD received a call from Terri regarding her daughter Jessica’s puppy being ran over. Jessica was… Posted by Jonesboro Police Department on Friday, May 21, 2021A twelve-year-old Florida boy is honoring fallen Illinois officer Chris Oberheim by running one mile with a thin blue line American flag.
The runner, Zechariah Cartledge, founded the non-profit Running 4 Heroes, Inc., with the goal of honoring those who make the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty.
Zechariah ran ten laps around his elementary school track in Florida. He was joined by local Florida law enforcement officials, as well as Chief Raymond Garivey of the Freeport Police Department in Texas:
Zechariah plans on giving the flag to the Oberheim family.
Breitbart News reported Zechariah went to Tennessee last week to honor two fallen Knox County Sheriff’s Officers.
Officer Oberheim was killed in the line of duty responding to a domestic disturbance early Wednesday morning in Champaign, Illinois. Another unidentified officer was shot but is expected to survive. The suspect, Darion Marquise Lafayette, 24, was pronounced dead at the scene after an exchange of gunfire.
According to Champaign county court records, Lafayette has been charged with domestic violence with three different women, as well as possession of drugs, including methamphetamine.
Officer Oberheim served 20 years in law enforcement and is survived by his wife and four daughters.A woman in Clayton, North Carolina, celebrated her 100th birthday on Tuesday dressed up in a yellow lei and festive gold-colored party hat.
Margie Adams is the oldest resident at the Gabriel Manor Assisted Living Center and everyone there considers her a “jewel” of the community, ABC 11 reported.
“During her long life, Margie has worked as a nurse and cosmetologist. She even sang the original jingle for RC Cola in early radio ads,” the outlet said.
Photos showed Adams in front of big pink signs outside the assisted living center that read, “Happy Birthday Margie” and “You Are Loved.”
Good sleeping habits, taking a vacation, drinking less, embracing one’s faith, and staying social were included in AARP’s 2017 list of ways to live a longer and healthier life.
The list also included exercise:
What’s the best prescription for a longer life? Exercise. And doctors are literally prescribing it instead of medication. “There is no pill that comes close to what exercise can do,” says Claude Bouchard, director of the human genomics laboratory at Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Louisiana. It benefits your brain, heart, skin, mood and metabolism. Even as little as 10 minutes of brisk walking can help (that’s all it takes to burn off the calories of one chocolate chip cookie). Once you can do 10 minutes, push it to 15. Then 20. Start slow, but just start. … The benefits of a brisk walk are real: A University of Pittsburgh study of adults 65 and older found that those whose usual walking pace exceeded one meter per second lived longer. While researchers say they can’t recommend brisk walking as a panacea for living longer, they did see increased survival in those who picked up the pace over the course of a year.
Adams, who was married for 75 years and is a devout Christian, told reporters clean living is the secret to her long and happy life.
“Yeah, I don’t smoke and I don’t drink. I used to when I was a teenager, but not now,” she commented.Toni Wilson-Taylor’s son passed away five years ago, but her plan to celebrate him on his May 16 birthday has since touched countless people.
Wilson-Taylor, a Plainfield, Indiana, resident woke Sunday intending to buy a birthday cake for a stranger to honor her beloved son, Tyler, according to Fox 8.
She contacted her Kroger grocery store and arranged to pay for a woman’s cake, then went by to leave a card with an explanation inside.
“I just wanted to do something that would make my son proud and happy,” she recalled. “It was supposed to be anonymous… I was not expecting the person who got my card to post it online.”
However, Carolyn Mick, the person who picked up the treat, was so touched when she read the note she shared a picture of it on a Facebook page for locals.
“Today is my son’s 35th birthday. His fifth one in Heaven. In his memory I’ve paid for your cake. Please enjoy, make special memories and hug your children and loved ones tight. My son loved cake!” the card, signed, “Love, Toni,” read.
A friend of Wilson-Taylor saw the Facebook post, recognized the name on the card, and reached out to connect with her. Eventually, word of her quiet gesture spread.
“I thought I was doing something so small and insignificant the other day, just… you know, asking God that Tyler knew I did something for him like that, not expecting it to touch so many lives in such a positive way,” Wilson-Taylor told WTHR.
Tyler was a doctor who unexpectedly passed away when he was just 29, the outlet said.
In the photo’s caption, Mick wrote, “Dear Toni.. you know who you are and I want to express how moved I am. This means so much that my husband and I cried together. With the turmoil of things going on it reminds us of what really matters LIFE!”
In response to all the heartfelt messages, Wilson-Taylor said she was “overwhelmed with emotion,” adding the comments “have sure touched my heart and made his birthday in heaven a blessed celebration of his life. Thank you all. May God bless you.”The Overland Park, Kansas, Police Department announced Wednesday that multiple police officers aided an elderly man recently by mowing his overgrown lawn.
The man had recently lost his spouse, KMBC reported.
A tweet from the police department said the officers were alerted to the man’s overgrown lawn. So, in between calls for service, the officers tended to his lawn to make it look absolutely perfect.
A proud OP citizen caught our OPPD officers coming to the aid of an elderly neighbor who recently lost of his spouse. The (multiple) officers mowed between calls for service. Officers involved did not want to be named, but thank you for your service. pic.twitter.com/TXwU1rJA6t — Overland Park Police (@OverlandPark_PD) May 19, 2021
“Officers involved did not want to be named,” the department said. “But thank you for your service.”
This is not the only time officers have pitched in to mow lawns for the elderly or downtrodden.
In July 2019, a Pennsylvania police officer mowed an elderly, disabled woman’s lawn over Fourth of July weekend.
In October 2020, Florida police conducted a well-being check on a man who had been disabled and down on his luck. After they assessed the situation, they offered to mow his lawn for him.A dog named Charis was given a special party recently to mark 365 days living at the Effingham County Humane Society in Illinois.
However, the pup had one more thing to be excited about because her adoptive family was on their way to come take her home, the Effingham Daily News reported Sunday.
A female dog named Charis recently received a special treat marking her one-year anniversary at the Effingham County Humane Society. Posted by Effingham Daily News on Sunday, May 16, 2021
Charis had been a resident at the shelter for 365 days and ECHS Adoption Coordinator Angie Sorling told the newspaper one of the reasons the dog was slightly nervous was due to the stress of being in the shelter for such a long time.
“Usually, they stay from four to 12 weeks. Puppies get adopted very fast,” Sorling explained, adding, “Some dogs can get a little anxious if they are in here too long. Apart from going out on a few adventures to the TREK trail or Ballard Nature Center, this is all new to her.”
However, she said Charis’ adoptive family immediately connected with her when they met.
“She put her head on their shoulder and looked up at me and Karen (Grupe). It was almost like she said, ‘These are my people,'” Sorling recalled. “It was love at first sight. She instantly took to them and she wasn’t scared of them.”
In a Facebook post on May 6, the shelter said, “After 365 days Charis has found her people. It may have taken some time but she says it was worth the wait.”
According to Sorling, Charis’ family knows they must be patient as she adjusts to life in their home.
“I think she loves us all … but, I know she is ready to get out of here,” she noted, adding she tries her best when it comes to matching a dog with the right owner.
“As an adoption coordinator, I take my job seriously. We listen to our dogs as well as our instincts when it comes to adopting out our dogs,” Sorling commented. “I am the voice for these dogs and it’s my responsibility to find the perfect home for them and it’s hard sometimes.”A New York City transit worker is being called a hero after he rescued an emotional support dog that escaped from her owner’s apartment and spent the day meandering subway tracks.
The dog, Lucy, made her escape Saturday morning from her owner’s eighth-floor apartment in Lower Manhattan while Molly Malone, the owner’s daughter, was in charge of caring for Lucy.
The owner, Susan Malone, 76, was recovering in the hospital from a broken arm and a leg at the time.
Lucy not only escaped the apartment itself, but she also boarded an elevator, was able to make it past the lobby without catching the attention of the doorman, ran outside, crossed the West Side Highway, and then descended into the Chambers Street subway station.
Lucy spent hours walking along the tracks of the 1 train until 14 blocks later when NYC Transit Train Service Supervisor Jose Bonilla found Lucy.
Bonilla had been briefed about the lost dog situation at the start of his shift, so he spent his entire shift trying to track down the pooch.
“I put myself in the path of Miss Lucy, who was at that time walking in a straight line,” Bonilla said. “She basically came up to me, I called out her name, she laid down in front of me, I petted her, I picked her up, there was a bite involved at that moment, and I was able to put her on the 2 train right into Molly’s hands. Basically another day in transit.”
Molly said she was relieved to hold Lucy again after Bonilla’s rescue. Lucy suffered a broken nail and had to be given a bath after the ordeal, but was otherwise safe.
Bonilla was awarded a certificate of commendation from the MTA for going above and beyond his duties to rescue the dog.A 95-year-old man who recently died made history in the U.S. as the oldest organ donor when he donated his liver to a woman in need of a liver transplant.
Cecil Lockhart, of Welch, West Virginia, who died at 95 years old on May 4, became the oldest organ donor in U.S. history, the Center for Organ Recovery and Education (CORE) announced Monday.
The center coordinated the recovery of the liver, and the woman who received the liver transplant is now recovering.
Lockhart beat the previous record for the oldest organ donor, who was 93 at the time of his donation, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing.
“CORE is incredibly proud to have been able to make this historic organ donation possible,” said CORE President & CEO Susan Stuart in a news release.
“This landmark in the field of transplantation is just another example of CORE’s pioneering legacy and commitment to innovation, which, over the last 40 years, has given 6,000 people in the United States the opportunity to save more than 15,000 others as organ donors,” the statement continued.
Lockhart’s family said Cecil was inspired to become an organ donor after his son Stanley became an organ donor when he died in 2010. He healed 75 lives through tissue donation and through cornea donation, restored sight to two others.
Lockhart’s son-in-law, Bill Davis, called his late father-in-law a “giving individual.”
“Anything he could do to help people he did. And this is just a way he’s continuing to help people after his time on Earth is finished,” Davis told CNN. “If we could all be that way, I think the world would be a little bit better place for us to be in.”
At Lockhart’s funeral, his family requested everyone to register as an organ donor in his memory.
As of February, more than 107,000 people in the U.S. are on the waitlist for a lifesaving organ transplant, and 17 people die each day while on the waiting list for a transplant, according to statistics from organdonor.gov.
To register as an organ donor, all you have to do is fill out a registration form which asks for your contact information.A Colorado woman who has been searching for her sisters for decades finally met them thanks to years of persistence and DNA technology.
“I want a new sisterhood,” Mara Hall, 65, told KUSA. “I’ve never had sisters or brothers, so this is really exciting for me. Who would know 65 years later that I would find them? Or that they would find me?”
Hall realized she might have had two siblings when she accessed her birth certificate in the early 1990s.
She placed her information on ancestry websites years later, hoping she would find the answers she was looking for.
She later received a phone call this past March.
“A woman said, ‘don’t hang up, but I think I’m your sister,’” Hall recalled. “Then she told me, ‘you have four sisters: Two older and two younger!’ I was like, wow! I got a bonus! I got two more!”
All of the siblings reunited in Colorado a month later, along with the niece who submitted the DNA that made this family reunion happen.
“They’re part of my new life. It’s a new journey,” Hall said. “I’m just so ready for [a] family that I can call my own.”
This is not the only instance where family members have been reunited after spending decades apart.
A Denver, Colorado, woman who was separated from her sister more than 40 years ago reunited with her sister in February 2019.
More recently, a woman found her birth mother 50 years later and realized she starred in one of her favorite television shows growing up as a child.A California woman reunited with her biological mother after spending more than 50 years apart and discovered her mom starred on one of her favorite TV sitcoms growing up.
“I grew up watching my mother on TV and didn’t even know it,” Lisa Wright told the Today Show on Friday about actress Lynne Moody.
Moody was an actress on the television show That’s My Mama, which had a two-season run in the 1970s and was a favorite in the household of Wright’s adoptive family.
“‘That’s My Mama’ — that was our must-see TV,” Wright recalled. “We all sat down and watched ‘That’s My Mama’ every week, and who knew? … that’s my mama!”
Although Wright always knew she was adopted, Wright did not start searching for blood relatives until she was an adult and had a child of her own. All she knew about her biological mother at the time was that she was 18 when she gave birth to her.
When Wright turned 54, her son suggested that she take a DNA test to discover her genetic lineage.
The test led her to an uncle who said that the family had been searching for her for years. He later connected her with Moody.
Both women happened to be living in the Los Angeles area and first spoke on the phone several years ago before meeting in person.
Moody, who gave her child up through a closed adoption, said she never gave birth to other children and had always dreamed of once again meeting her biological daughter.
“As a mother, you never, ever, ever forget,” Moody said. “During those 50 years, all I did was try to learn how to live with it.”An Ohio community is rallying around business owner Adam Wallace after a car crash destroyed his food cart Saturday night.
“I heard a boom,” Wallace told WBNS. “I thought, man, somebody has just got into an accident. Then I got a call 15 minutes later saying, ‘Hey Adam, there’s been an accident, and your cart’s been hit.’”
Wallace owns two food carts and a food truck. At the time of the crash, he immediately thought of his cook, who was stationed outside that night.
A head-on collision sent one of the vehicles landing right into the food cart. Wallace was told his cook was able to escape the crash, but the cart suffered heavy damage.
“It was like a hurricane went through and scattered food all over the place,” said Wallace. “The pans, the grill literally came apart. It was just everywhere.”
Nick Elkovitch, a service manager at Union Café, says he and others came running to help put the fire out that started as a result of the crash.
The next day, Elkovitch started a GoFundMe page for the food cart in case it was not covered by insurance.
Although Wallace’s cart is covered by insurance and he will be filing a claim, he was overjoyed at the support he got from his community.
“Just the support from the community. I appreciate you guys,” said Wallace. “You have no idea how much that means to me. I know you all love my food, but that is just love on top of love.”A nurse with the University of Kansas Health System went above and beyond to give a child happy memories of his mother to last a lifetime.
It all began when five-year-old Joel called his mother’s fiancée to tell him that she was having a heart attack at the park. The five-year-old then called 911 so paramedics could help his mother.
Joel’s mother was then rushed to the University of Kansas Health System for treatment.
“She went 25 minutes with no oxygen and blood flow to any of her body,” Va, Ashley’s fiancée, told KSHB.
Ashley remains in a vegetative state at the hospital.
Her fiancée said he would have a conversation with doctors about what to do after she gives birth in several weeks.
Joel has already lost his biological father.
It was around Valentine’s Day that Ashley’s nurses figured out how they could brighten up Joel’s life.
“Through the help of some of my incredible colleagues here, we were able to figure out how we could surprise him at his daycare to bring Spiderman to him and bring some treats to his classmates and bring a special Valentine note from his mom,” Casey Pickering, an ICU nurse at the University of Kansas Health System, said.
The special surprise brought some much-needed cheer to the family.
“He loved it. He loved every second of it. He thought it was awesome,” Rodriguez said.
Nurses have always been going above and beyond for their patients and their families.
Nurses also stepped in to throw a surprise party for an 18-year-old cancer patient in February 2020.The Tunnel to Towers Foundation is going to pay off the mortgage on the home belonging to the family of deceased New York Police Department (NYPD) Officer Anastasios Tsakos.
The officer was killed by an alleged drunk driver recently on the Long Island Expressway, according to CBS New York.
According to his family, he and his wife Irene bought their East Northport home in 2020.
“We are devastated by this tragic loss. Officer Tsakos was one of our city’s heroes who went to work to keep us and our city safe and he did not make it home to his wife and children,” the foundation’s CEO and Chairman Frank Siller said.
“A family went to bed and woke up to the unimaginable news that they would never see their husband and father again,” he continued.
The organization made the announcement on April 30 and encouraged people to donate to the cause:
Announced today on @foxandfriends, #Tunnel2Towers will be paying off the mortgage on the home of #NYPD Officer Anastasios Tsakos, killed in the line of duty 4/27. Tsakos leaves behind his wife, daughter & son. Join us for just $11/mo. Sign up: https://t.co/CZ97kTjRFU pic.twitter.com/fTnx8T9CGZ — Tunnel to Towers Foundation (@Tunnel2Towers) April 30, 2021
The 43-year-old officer was a 14-year veteran of the department, Breitbart News reported April 27:
Tsakos was struck by a 2013 Volkswagen on the Long Island Expressway’s eastbound lanes near Francis Lewis Boulevard shortly before 2:00 a.m. Tsakos was rushed to New York-Presbyterian Queens Hospital in critical condition. He later succumbed to his injuries. Police said the suspect, Jessica Beauvais, a 32-year-old woman from Long Island allegedly driving with a suspended license while intoxicated, swerved to avoid other vehicles and struck Tsakos as he was standing next to his marked squad car.
Following his death, Irene worried about being able to keep her family’s home, said Tsakos’ brother, Teddy.
“She told me what are we going to do now? Am I going to have to move again?” he explained in a statement, according to Fox News.
Hours later, Siller called to say they did not need to worry, adding, “the kids are going to grow up in this house,” Teddy Tsakos noted.During a snowstorm a few months ago in Toledo, Ohio, Jimmy Preston saw John Brandeberry walking. So, he stopped and gave him a ride to his job at Kroger.
Following their chance meeting, Preston worked with the nonprofit group Blessings in Disguise to give Brandeberry the money to take driver’s education classes and pay the fees to get a driver’s license, 13 ABC reported.
Brandeberry has since earned his license. On Thursday, he got a big surprise when he received a paid-off Toyota Rav 4.
The Jim White Toyota dealership covered over half the price and money from a GoFundMe page Preston created took care of the rest and also six months’ worth of car insurance.
Congratulations, Kroger John! We hope you will love your Rav4! #blessingsindisguise Posted by Jim White Toyota on Thursday, May 6, 2021
According to the fundraising page, the young man, who works as a night stocker at the store, was never taught how to drive and his family could not afford driver’s education classes:
When I picked John up in the worst of conditions he said “I have to get there because a lot of people will call off.” His managers love him and he is a dependable, hard worker. I am creating this fundraising campaign to raise enough money to get John a reliable, all weather vehicle as his job is essential. Also to reward him for his stunning dedication and work ethic (which are humbling), as well as him being an awesome human being (squeaky clean record).
As of Monday afternoon, the page has raised $7,005 of its $5,000 goal.
In addition to the car, Brandeberry will receive a bike rack and a bicycle, the 13 ABC article said.
“A small amount of assistance can steer us away from longer term problems like depression, poverty and homelessness, preventing otherwise productive lives from degenerating into hopeless ruin,” the Blessings in Disguise website read.
Once he received the gift Thursday, Bradenberry said it proved there are still good people out there.
“You should treat everyone how you want to be treated,” he concluded.An officer with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department (CMPD) is being credited with saving a 15-year-old’s life when the victim was found shot and bleeding after trying to sell personal property.
The shooting occurred at about 10:30 p.m. Wednesday at 4430 The Plaza, according to WFXR.
“A third-shift North Tryon Officer was in the area of Eastway and the Plaza when he heard gunshots and immediately began canvassing the area for anyone injured,” the City of Charlotte said in a press release Friday:
Moments later, the officer located a 15-year-old juvenile with gunshot wounds on the ground, heavily bleeding. The officer applied tourniquets to the victim while waiting for medic. While officers were circulating and searching for the shooter(s), our Real-Time Crime Center (RTCC) assisted and observed a silver Ford Fusion leaving the scene at a high rate of speed. While also in the area, our Aviation Unit heard the call, immediately located the vehicle, and began giving out directions to officers. Once officers found the vehicle and initiated a traffic stop, four occupants in the vehicle jumped out of the car and ran from the scene of 6209 Countryside Drive. Officers were able to detain two occupant juveniles without incident, while two remained outstanding.
The juveniles taken into custody were charged with attempted murder and held at Jail North.
“The exceptional teamwork and rapid response from North Tryon officers, our RTCC, Aviation Unit, K9 Unit, and Eastway Division officers provided this victim with another chance at life who merely wanted to sell personal property that resulted in violence,” the press release continued.
According to CMPD’s website, it is an organization with an “impeccable reputation of excellence, integrity, and service.”
“Reducing crime and improving the quality of life for residents are among our top priorities in making Charlotte the safest big city in America,” the site read.A 100-year-old Navy veteran received special recognition from the state of New Jersey for his service during World War II.
Navy veteran Sidney Finkle, who served as a Navy Aviation Ordnanceman 3rd Class during World War II, recently received the New Jersey Distinguished Service Medal (NJDSM) from acting Deputy Commissioner for Veterans Affairs Walter Nall.
The outdoor ceremony took place at Brandywine Living at Pennington, where Finkle, a Trenton native, has been living for seven years with his wife, Jean, to whom he has been married for 72 years.
Jean’s first cousin read aloud from the framed recognition from Gov. Phil Murphy (D-NJ) before Nall pinned the medal onto Finkle’s coat and congratulated him with a firm handshake, NJ.com reported.
“Congratulations, Sid,” Nall said.
The attendees burst into applause and cheers.
The couple’s daughter, Grace Finkle, lives with her husband in North Carolina but she was able to attend the ceremony virtually. Grace described her father’s outgoing personality and how he is very welcoming to his fellow residents.
Lynn Lowe, a former neighbor of the Finkles, attended the ceremony in person.
“We come up here. We visit them,” Lowe said. “We bring them Easter goodies, Valentine’s Day gifts, just to remind them that we love them.”
After the reception, Sidney Finkle recalled some of the memories of his service — some painful — before saying he was thankful to receive the state honor.
“It’s been a lovely day,” he said.An 18-year-old has had difficulty living with Tourette’s syndrome, trying every medication and therapy to treat it, but to no avail.
Now, Jeremy Schreifels and his family are seeking help from their local community to raise money for a $130,000 experimental Deep Brain Stimulation surgery that Jeremy’s health insurance does not cover.
His Florida community, however, has stepped up to help him.
Leon McClellan, Vice President of M&B Dairy in Lecanto, contacted some friends and decided to hold a fundraising barbecue that will take place on June 12 at noon, according to a Facebook post.
April Royal, Phil Royal Legacy Foundation president, also learned about Jeremy’s struggle with the disorder and scheduled a car wash fundraiser from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and an Italian dinner fundraising event from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. on May 22.
Tickets for the dinner can be purchased online at this website.
Brian Sanders, who owns the Extreme Decalz graphic design shop, was inspired to hold an open house for his business that will include vendor booths, a car and truck show, a 50/50 raffle, a bounce house for kids, plus food and music.
The event is free and will take place June 19 from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at Extreme Decalz, 10199 N. Citrus Ave., Crystal River, Florida.
All proceeds from the event will go towards Jeremy’s surgery.
“We’ve got to help him get the relief he needs so badly,” Sanders said.
Jeremy’s mother says she is “grateful” for all those who pitched in to help her family so far.
“Our family is very thankful and grateful for everyone that is helping our family; we would not be able to do it without the love and support of the community, family, and friends,” said Jennifer Schreifels.An anonymous fisherman is being hailed as a hero after rescuing a child from drowning at an upstate New York lake.
The man could not be identified because after he rescued the child, he left in his boat without giving his name.
The Olean Times Herald reported that the incident took place at Cossayuna Lake in Washington County. Police said two ten-year-old children were kayaking on the lake when one child fell out of his kayak.
The other child did not have the capacity to help, but the child who fell in the water reportedly was gripping his boat that tipped over.
The child whose boat tipped over reportedly could not swim or bring his boat back to shore. Luckily, a fisherman who was nearby heard the children yelling for help, rushed to their aid, and helped them back to shore.
Sgt. Robert Sullivan of the Washington County Sheriff’s Office told the Post Star the unidentified man brought the child struggling in the water back to shore and then kept on fishing.
Authorities have not been able to identify the Good Samaritan. The family of the boy whose kayak capsized wants to thank the man personally and is asking anyone with information on the man to get in contact with them.An 18-year-old high school student who was saving up his money for college won a scholarship. Now, he is using the money he saved to give back to others.
“He just has a heart for people,” Yolanda Curry, the school counselor, told KSDK.
Joshua Nelson, who excelled in school, was a three-year varsity basketball player, and president of the school’s Multi-Cultural Achievement Committee, received a scholarship from Southeast Missouri State University and is planning to major in biomedical sciences with a focus on the school’s pre-optometry program.
But his school counselor was blown away when Nelson announced that he would use his $1,000 in savings to help other students go to college.
“I was really just blown away because I was not expecting that,” Curry said with a laugh.
Over the next few weeks, with a little help from his teachers and parents, Nelson will be accepting applications for his scholarship with the intent that more donors will help that $1,000 multiply.
“I really thought it was important to give back to my community that poured in so much to me,” Nelson said.
Those who would like to donate to the Joshua Nelson Scholarship In Action Scholarship fund can do so here.The Shallowater High School Student Council in Texas raised thousands of dollars for a very special cause during its annual Mr. Mustang event on Thursday.
The funds raised will be given to the family of Baylor Buckner, a little girl recently diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, everythinglubbock.com reported.
The illness is a form of cancer “in which the bone marrow makes too many immature lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell),” according to the National Cancer Institute.
The event’s purpose was to raise awareness of different types of cancer and the impact on individuals and their families.
Fourteen candidates from various school organizations were tasked with giving facts about specific forms of cancer. Each person also performed a talent and answered a question in front of students and judges.
The school shared pictures of students at the event with Baylor in the middle helping hold the giant check.
“This was an amazing fundraiser for Baylor and her family! The event raised $30,103!” the post read:
Shallowater High School student council, Mrs. Hester, and all the people it took to make Mr. Mustang possible out did… Posted by Shallowater High School on Thursday, April 29, 2021
“We knew we could not pass up the opportunity to bless this amazing family. I know that there is not a family more deserving than the Buckners!” said Student Council president, Hannah Fisher.
“They are so kind, positive, and grateful. They are such a great example of clinging tight to their faith despite the challenging circumstances. The smile on Baylor’s face is what made all of the work worth it,” she continued.
Shallowater ISD expressed its thanks to everyone who donated and helped make the event a big success, saying of Baylor, “Though she be but little, she is fierce!”
Facebook users congratulated the students and one person called their efforts “outstanding.”
“Bravo!!!! I am so proud to be a part of the SISD community! There is so much light ahead for our world with kids like this in the lead!” another said.A Florida teenager who recently aged out of the foster care system got adopted by her former caseworker.
Monyay Paskalides, who is 19-years-old, was in foster homes and group homes in Florida before she aged out of the system, according to a Facebook post from the Safe Children Coalition.
WTVT reported Monyay was first placed into a group home at the age of 11 in the foster care system and had been there ever since, until now.
“With my signature, it is official,” Judge Teri Dees said amidst applause and cheers via Zoom last Tuesday. “Happy adoption day.”
Before Leah Paskalides took on the title of “mother,” she worked as Monyay’s caseworker and mentor within the Safe Children Coalition.
“She was always a kid that did not deserve to go through life without a support system of a family,” Leah said.
Monyay was a good student who graduated a year early and volunteered to help other foster kids in similar situations.
Monyay was able to rely on Leah for support, but Leah could not adopt her due to the conflict of interest that existed at the time with her job.
As Monyay aged out of the foster care system without a mother, Leah discovered she could still adopt Monyay as an adult.
“It was important to me that she knew that she was wanted by somebody, that somebody loved her,” Leah explained. “I could say that as many times as I want, but actions speak louder than words.”
Both Monyay and Leah hope their story can inspire others to adopt teens in foster or group homes and give hope to children and teens who are still waiting to find their forever families.A U.S. Navy veteran recently had a milestone birthday celebration by getting a free roof worth $12,000 for his home.
My Roofing Crew, along with Habitat for Humanity of Sumner County and Owens Corning Roof Deployment Project, installed U.S. Navy veteran Willie Brown III’s roof as part of a nationwide effort to give back to military veterans, the Nashville Tennessean reported.
Since the program’s start in 2016, the Owens Corning program has given roofs to more than 250 members of the military.
“When they came out here, I couldn’t hardly hold back my tears. They came to my rescue,” Brown said. “And the roof is holding up fantastic. I couldn’t have asked for any better.”
Brown turned 71 on April 26, days after the end of the roofing installation, making the project an especially memorable one for Brown.
“I’m content, I’m blessed, and I got peace of mind, finally,” Brown, a Vietnam veteran, said. “In my life, at the age of 71, I can say I have peace of mind.”
For more information on Brown’s roofing project and other upcoming roofing projects, visit myroofingcrew.com and habitatsumnercounty.org.An Iraq War veteran and his loved ones received an incredible gift Sunday from members of the community in North Kansas City, Missouri.
The Deron Cherry Foundation along with Cars 4 Heroes gave James Dilks and his family a refurbished vehicle at the Derron Cherry Second Annual Pickle Ball tournament and fundraiser, KSHB reported.
“We have to take care of our veterans — those folks that serve our country,” Deron Cherry told the outlet. “You know, they make the ultimate sacrifice. A lot of them are fortunate enough to come home, some of them aren’t. And the ones that come home, they need a little bit of help.”
The Deron Cherry Foundation began in 1992 and currently assists five charities in the area.
Dilks served with the Army Reserves and was later deployed to Iraq from 2003 to 2004. He said he walks four miles to work daily and also walks his children to school. His wife is pregnant with their third child.
“I was just excited that… Like I said, I walk to work every day, and I walk her to school, so I’m just excited that we don’t have to do it anymore,” the veteran said.
Cars 4 Heroes refurbished the vehicle for Dilks and his family.
According to its website, the organization “provides free basic transportation to veterans, active-duty military, first responders, and their families that are unable to obtain it on their own.”
Cars 4 Heroes founder and director, Terry Franz, shared a photo of Dilks getting the keys to the vehicle:
James getting his keys Posted by Car Santa on Monday, May 3, 2021
“You never get tired of looking at their faces,” Franz explained, adding, “The biggest thing is the sigh of relief. ‘Oh, I can get the kids to the doctor, oh I can get to the grocery store.’ So it’s really not about a prize, but giving them the freedom to go out and do the things they need to do.”An adopted dog that went missing after a car crash near the Florida Everglades has been found safe following nine days of wandering alone.
“Theo went missing on April 20 after a van that was driving him to his new adoptive family crashed on U.S. 27 between Miami and Belle Glade,” Fox 35 reported Saturday.
A family from New Jersey recently adopted the pup during their visit to Florida when they found him abandoned in Miami.
Update OUR HEART'S ARE HAPPY "Theo" has been found and is Safe 💞🐾😘🐾🐾🐾🐾🐾🐾🐾🐾Calling all Auto Accident Angels (AAA)… Posted by Lost Pets of Auto Accidents on Friday, April 23, 2021
Ashley Tirado arranged for a transport company to bring Theo to New Jersey, but over an hour away from the shelter, the van ran off the road and fell on its side near the Everglades, an area filled with marshes and swamps, where alligators and other predators live.
A Facebook group was created to post updates when volunteers went out to search for Theo and on Thursday, they found him.
Tirado shared photos of the volunteers with the dog, writing, “Theo has been found. He is safe. He is SO SO lucky to have this team of amazing women who did what they did”:
Theo has been found. He is safe. He is SO SO lucky to have this team of amazing women who did what they did. I can’t… Posted by Ashley Kim on Thursday, April 29, 2021
According to Tirado, her pup is healthy and she could not thank the volunteers enough for working so hard to find him.
“We are so grateful for the support Theo has received through this. He is FOUND and FINALLY our tears can be tears of joy!!!” she told Fox 35.A bystander dived off a highway guardrail into a Maryland Bay on Sunday to rescue an infant flung from a car into the water after a crash, authorities said.
The infant was flung from the car on the Route 90 bridge in Ocean City, Maryland, and plunged into the Assawoman Bay, according to a statement posted on Facebook by the Ocean City Fire Department:
At least eight people were injured in the crash, according to the fire department.
Authorities were dispatched to the scene shortly before 3:00 p.m. and found one car hanging off the bridge, officials said.
Authorities said three other cars were also involved in the accident.
Firefighters secured the hanging vehicle, and paramedics treated multiple patients at the scene. Seven people were taken to local hospitals via ambulances, and the infant was flown to Johns Hopkins Children’s Center in Baltimore, the fire department stated in its release.
The victims’ conditions were not immediately known. None of the victims were identified at the time, and authorities did not disclose what caused the crash.
Route 90 was shut down between Coastal Highway and Route 589 while the Ocean City Police investigated the cause of the crash.An Indiana community helped a family of five rebuild their lives after their home burned down in February.
It all started when the family’s garage caught fire in February.
“I noticed the door to my garage was on fire, and there was smoke coming from the bottom,” Ashley Calhoun told WSBT. “It was at that point I panicked, but mommy mode kicked in, and we had to get out of the house.”
Smoke encompassed the house, and everything in the garage was damaged for good.
For the next two-and-a-half months, the family was displaced and had to stay in a hotel.
The Calhoun family just recently moved back into their home, but most of the items inside it have been donated by the community or her children’s school.
“Some of the people who have donated know us personally but a lot of people who did, they don’t, and it’s been amazing,” Calhoun said.
Some items came from a Facebook post that Calhoun did not know about until Thursday. She felt a sensation her family got when giving back to others last winter by assembling Christmas blessing boxes.
“To be the giver in this situation, it was amazing, but then several months later to be on the opposite end, to be the one needing the help, it was very … it put things in a whole new perspective for me,” Calhoun said.
Other communities have chipped in to help local families rebuild after going through a devastating house fire.
In March, a Texas community helped a family rebuild their lives after they went through a devastating house fire.
And in January, a Culpeper, Virginia, community donated thousands of dollars to a GoFundMe page to help a family who escaped from a house fire with nothing but the clothes on their backs.
Not too far away in Bristow, Virginia, the community helped a family recover from a fire that totally destroyed their home in December 2020 by donating clothing and food items while also raising money through a GoFundMe account.Following more than 10 years of service to the nation, U.S. Marine Corps Sgt. Aaron Zurn and his family received a custom-built home Thursday in Ohio to call their own.
The house was built through a joint effort with the Home Builders Association of Dayton, JM Dungan Custom Homes, and Operation Finally Home, a nonprofit that builds houses for disabled veterans or widows of soldiers who gave their lives in combat, the Dayton Daily News reported.
Welcome home, U.S. Marine Corps Sgt. Aaron Zurn! This week we joined JM Dungan Custom Homes and @hbadayton to hand over the keys to the Zurn family. We originally surprised them with the news last year at a @DaytonFlyers @DaytonMBB game! pic.twitter.com/j8FiBHMZfL — OperationFINALLYHOME (@OpFINALLYHOME) April 30, 2021
“Last year, he and his wife, Brittany, were surprised at a University of Dayton Flyers basketball game during halftime with the news that they were selected to receive the new custom, mortgage-free home in Vandalia,” the newspaper said.
The Operation Finally Home website detailed Zurn’s time in the service:
Aaron began his service with two tours in Iraq as a U.S. Marine Corps Rifleman. On his first deployment to Fallujah, Aaron witnessed a fellow Marine killed by a rocket-propelled grenade within 10 minutes of arrival. That introduction, and the fierce fighting the Marines faced in Fallujah, still impact his life today. In 2010, Aaron sought a new challenge and reenlisted as a “jump qualified” Marine Special Operations Forces (MARSOF) operator. Aaron deployed twice with MARSOF, and his company was frequently exposed to heavy enemy fire, ambush and improvised explosive devices (IEDs). During his final deployment, Aaron fell out of a helicopter and was knocked unconscious, resulting in Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). After a total of four deployments, he medically retired in 2016.
Zurn also suffers from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), bilateral hearing loss, and knee injuries.
“It just means so much to us to come here and have this home that’s built perfectly for us. This is everything we could’ve ever wanted in a home and it’s so specific to who our family is,” Brittany commented.
Eric Farrell, executive director of the Home Builders Association of Dayton, said a house provides a sense of safety and security especially in light of the past year, adding, “The smiles on the kids’ faces, the smiles on the Zurn family, you can’t replicate that.”Pittsburgh Steelers first-round draft pick Najee Harris quickly paid it forward Friday after joining the NFL by hosting a pizza party at the homeless shelter he stayed in as a youth.
Harris appeared at the Greater Richmond Interfaith Program where a draft party was already being held to celebrate his success. But the newly christened Steeler didn’t merely drop in; he paid for the refreshments and food, CBS Channel 2 reported.
“I wanted to make sure that I could give back to the community and show them if y’all still need anything like I’m never too big or too whatever to help you guys out, I’m always going to be the helping hand,” Harris said. “I wanted to make sure that happened, so I had a party over there, passing out food and pizza.”
Harris added that he wanted to show the shelter that he intends to be there for them.
“I feel like they didn’t think that was serious enough, which they did, but in my mindset, I didn’t think so, so I said I’m going to pull up and actually show them I’m really here if you guys need anything,” the 23=-year-old player said. “I know I’m getting drafted today, but if you guys need anything, I’m literally right here.”
Kathleen Sullivan, executive director at the Greater Richmond Interfaith Program, told the media that Harris’ mother was a rock for the family.
“His mother was instrumental in getting him and all those children through what would normally be the most horrific experience of their lives,” Sullivan said.
As he takes his place in the Steelers organization, Harris said he plans to start a non-profit that will continue to help support the shelter and others in his hometown.
Harris is a graduate of the University of Alabama, where he became a two-time CFP national champion. He was considered the number one recruit in the 2017 season and ranked by ESPN as the number three overall for the class.
Follow Warner Todd Huston on Facebook at: facebook.com/Warner.Todd.Huston.A North Augusta, South Carolina, community is rallying behind a police officer who came down with a sudden illness and is in the hospital fighting for his life.
Local businesses are looking to lift the burden off of Sgt. Andrew Cook by raising money for his family and for medical expenses related to his recovery, WRDW reported.
Your Pie Pizza in downtown North Augusta, for example, is saving a portion of all sales to support Cook and his family.
Shoppe3130 is another business that is using its proceeds to support Cook as he recovers from his illness.
Cook has worked with the public safety department in North Augusta since 2000. He has now spent several weeks in the hospital fighting an unexpected illness.
Cook was recently diagnosed with colon cancer and also came down with the coronavirus while undergoing treatment. After he recovered from the coronavirus, Cook began to have complications stemming from his colon cancer surgery, according to the Augusta Chronicle.
“Sgt. Cook has been with public safety for a number of years now, he started out as a firefighter with us and always helpful to the community and a good person,” said Lt. Junior Johnson from North Augusta Public Safety.
Cook is also a husband and a father of two children.
Lt. Tim Thornton, public information officer for the North Augusta Department of Public Safety, said that the department is extremely grateful to the local businesses with a personal connection to the Cook family to pay medical bills.
“It is just an example of how North Augusta people rally together in a time of need,” he said. “The North Augusta community has a history of rallying around people in need and when they are aware of it.”A man in Michigan recently won $2 million with a scratch-off lottery ticket after losing all of his belongings during a flood in 2020.
The anonymous 29-year-old Midland County resident bought the winning Lucky 7’s ticket at Anna’s Market on Jefferson Avenue, WREG reported Monday.
“Last year, I lost everything in a flood, so to win this prize is so overwhelming to me,” he explained, according to the Michigan Lottery Connect’s website.
“I never play $20 tickets, but when I stopped to pick up a couple things on my way to pick up my kids the Lucky 7’s ticket caught my eye. Seven is a lucky number for me, so I decided to take a chance and bought the ticket,” the man continued.
He scratched off the ticket once he returned to his car.
“When I saw I had a match, I thought: ‘Great, I won my money back!’ When I saw I had actually won $2 million, I couldn’t stop shaking. A few years back, I won $10,000 and I thought that was my once in a lifetime shot at winning the Lottery,” the man said.
The Michigan Lottery shared what appeared to be a photo of the winning ticket on Friday:
A Midland County man who lost everything a year ago feels overwhelmed after winning $2 million playing $2,000,000 Lucky 7’s! ➡️ https://t.co/1KaKTJM3Fj pic.twitter.com/GkCQ3WgJEL — Michigan Lottery (@MILottery) April 24, 2021
He later visited Lottery headquarters to claim the prize and chose to take his winnings as a one-time lump sum of around $1.3 million instead of annuity payments for $2 million.
Now, he plans to put the money toward bills and save whatever is left.
“Knowing my kids will be taken care of is the best feeling in the world,” he noted.
Facebook users congratulated him on the big win and several called it awesome.
“Love that he won! Nice to see someone who needs it won it,” one person commented.
“That’s fantastic, so very happy for you! You surely deserve it!” another said.A woman in Nebraska is heading up an effort to place markers on the graves of numerous babies and children who were laid to rest without them.
Mary Spencer leads the Littlest Angels Project at Wyuka Cemetery, created 15 years ago by an auxiliary group that eventually merged with the Wyuka Historical Foundation.
Its goal is to honor the many forgotten little ones, according to the Lincoln Journal Star:
When Nebraska lawmakers established Wyuka Cemetery and Park in 1869, the legislative act included the promise the cemetery would provide free burials for orphans and castaways, babies from families too poor to afford a stone, and state wards — up to the age of 18. When the auxiliary started the Littlest Angels Project, it found graves scattered across the 124-acre cemetery. The group raised money for a marker here. Another there. Mary and other volunteers on the foundation’s board are working on Babyland first, then will move to Section 3, and Home of the Friendless later. “It’s a daunting task, finding those graves marked only with a number on those concrete discs that have sunk below the surface over the decades. The record books give a number: 2,850,” the article read.
Six hundred and ninety-nine of those are known as “infant of” or “baby girl or boy” which leaves 2,151 named without a headstone, according to the foundation’s website. Mary and her husband, Lorre, have discovered many buried discs and money raised by the project has paid for markers that cost $225 each. Cemetery workers plant the markers engraved with WHF and have so far placed around 200 of them.
Ten of 47 areas at the cemetery have unmarked graves of babies and children, so the volunteers with the project have a way to go, but Spencer is up to the challenge.Two sisters in Jackson, Missouri, got a big surprise at school on Friday when their father showed up in his military uniform fresh off a deployment to Kuwait.
Sisters Kinsley and Ella Lathum took pictures with their classmates to welcome home their dad after school, but little did they know he was going to be part of the day’s lesson plan.
Carl Lathum, their father, spent nine months deployed in Kuwait as a military police officer.
“I’ve been in the military for 11 years,” Carl Lathum told KFVS.
Lathum has also served in far away places like Qatar and Cuba. He is now home in Missouri for a while.
“It’s good to come home and to surprise them and see the look on their faces, even though I’m pretty sure they’re more shocked and surprised than anything,” Carl Lathum said.
Kinsley’s kindergarten teacher helped organize the special moment, having the entire class write “welcome home” letters before coloring them in.
Mother Jennifer Lathum said it would be a big help to have her husband around again.
“The girls love their daddy; they’ll be very thankful to have him home all the time,” Jennifer Lathum said.
Now that the family is reunited, they plan on taking a trip to the St. Louis Zoo and spending more time together.A Long Island Railroad (LIRR) conductor was honored Friday for his good deeds, specifically turning in $107,000 in missing jewelry that he found on a train.
The jewelry tray included engagement rings, some with diamonds embedded inside them. A jeweler left the tray on a train to Port Washington on Thursday evening, according to a press release from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA).
Assistant Conductor Jonathan Yellowday, of Queens, was working on the 6:11 p.m. train out of New York Penn Station to Port Washington when he discovered the tray of engagement rings.
Yellowday got on the next train back to Penn Station and turned the case of jewelry over to the MTA police.
The rings belonged to jeweler Ed Eleasian, whose office is located in Midtown Manhattan. He said he did not realize he left behind the case of jewelry on his commute home.
LIRR President Phil Eng praised Yellowday’s good deed.
“Not only did you find and return these 36 rings, but just think about the happiness of 36 couples down the road that will be joined together in happiness, and they’ll have a story to tell,” Eng said.
Eleasian recovered his lost case of jewelry Friday afternoon.
“I could only imagine what you were going through yesterday when you realized that you didn’t have your jewelry. You know when you get on the 6:11 you’re in good hands,” Yellowday told Eleasian.
Yellowday has worked for the LIRR for seven years. He said he had seen many lost items throughout his tenure, but nothing of this value.An anonymous donor has generously paid adoption fees for 21 pups living at a shelter in Daytona Beach, Florida.
According to People, “The donor, dubbed Doge Community, won big using cryptocurrency Dogecoin and put $1000 of those funds toward the adoption fees of dogs that were currently ready to be adopted from Halifax Humane Society,” the shelter’s Community Outreach Director Barry Kukes told the outlet.
In a Facebook post on Sunday, the organization shared photos of some of the dogs and thanked Doge Community for the gift:
UPDATE- All the dogs that were paid for have been adopted.A generous donor, Doge Community has paid the adoption fees… Posted by Halifax Humane Society, Inc. on Sunday, April 18, 2021
The nonprofit’s website said it serves more than 30,000 animals annually and exists to protect them from cruel, neglectful, and exploitative treatment. “It is the belief of the Society that all living creatures possess an intrinsic value, which is manifested in its creation. Further, the Society believes that mankind must become a responsible steward of animals which he has domesticated and brought under his control,” the site read.
According to WTSP, Dogecoin is a cryptocurrency based on an internet meme with the face of the Shiba Inu breed.
“Created as a joke in 2013, the cryptocurrency had never hit $0.01 until Jan. 2 of this year. Since then, it has skyrocketed and the price has soared more than 400% in the past week alone,” the article said. Kukes said the donor “did not adopt a dog, but is a dog lover and wanted to do something nice with her financial windfall from her Dogecoin investment.”Fraternity brothers at Louisiana State University (LSU) have always had fond memories of their fraternity house cook, so when they realized she was working two jobs to pay off her home mortgage, they decided to pay it forward.
Phi Gamma Delta alumni realized their former cook, Jessie Hamilton, was working two jobs to pay off her home mortgage and decided to do something to help.
The fraternity brothers surprised her with $51,765 in time for her 74th birthday in an April 3 celebration they called “Jesse Hamilton Day,” the Advocate reported.
“They were my kids. They still are,” Hamilton told the Washington Post. “They used to tell me they loved me, and now, they’ve proved it.”
During her time at the fraternity house between 1982 and 1996, Hamilton, a single mother of three, would begin her day at 4:00 a.m. to make it to campus in time to serve the boys breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
She was also there to listen whenever one of the boys wanted to talk and made herself available to take them to the grocery store or to doctor’s appointments.
“I enjoyed doing it. They loved my cooking,” Hamilton told the Post. “I was always there to talk things through with them. They’d come in the kitchen and sit on top of the counter and tell me their problems.”
Hamilton stayed in touch with several of the brothers over the years, including Andrew Fusaiotti, 52.
Fusaiotti, who owns a car dealership in Mobile, Alabama, checked in on Hamilton at the start of the pandemic and was disappointed to hear she was still working two jobs — one as a cook at a country club and one as a cleaner at the Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport.
Speaking with her children, he found out she had 16 years to go on a 30-year mortgage and needed to pay off the $45,000 balance.
Soon, Fusaiotti got his fraternity brothers on board and got 91 of them to donate an average of $560.
Fusaiotti and his brothers gave Hamilton a check to cover the mortgage, as well as a second check for $6,675 for personal expenses.
“This has been a blessing to me,” Hamilton told the Advocate. “I have been worrying about how I was going to pay my house off. I am grateful for what God has done and has led them to do for me.”An Illinois World War II veteran who turned 100 last Thursday got a surprise at his birthday party on Saturday that left him at a loss for words.
A group of family friends was throwing Leonard Crofford a birthday party when one of Crofford’s close friends gave him an American flag that flew over the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC, WSIL reported.
“I wasn’t expecting this; he fooled me. He didn’t tell me he was going to do this,” Crofford laughed.
Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) helped make the surprise a reality. Bost also read Crofford’s name on the House floor on the day the veteran turned 100.
“One thing I’ve learned in life is that you don’t throw the word ‘hero’ around lightly,” Bost said.
Crofford did not expect this surprise; he only expected he would be spending yet another year with family and friends.
Crofford, born in 1921, served in the Navy for two years before joining the Army two years later, serving from 1939 to 1945.
He is one of the few living veterans who witnessed the attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941.
“This [flag] is something I’m going to cherish for the rest of my life, and I’m going to hand it on down to my children,” Crofford said.A two-year-old girl who went missing is safe with her family once more thanks to the efforts of the New York State Trooper who found her on March 27.
Trooper Brian Hotchkiss spotted the child while helping the Ontario County Sheriff’s Office with the search in South Bristol, WHAM reported.
“It was getting close to getting dark out and getting cold. We wanted to get the search done as soon as we could,” Ontario County Sheriff Kevin Henderson recalled.
Hotchkiss was one of the state troopers who responded to the area of Bristol Mountain.
“I began knocking on neighbors’ doors with a couple other troopers, alerting neighbors to check their property. They started contacting other neighbors and resources for help,” he explained.
When there was still no sign of her, Hotchkiss and two fellow troopers began climbing a mountain he described as “kitty-corner to Bristol Mountain,” according to the Democrat & Chronicle.
The troopers each split off on different paths to search.
Hotchkiss said the hike winded him, “But I knew I wouldn’t be able to sleep at night if I didn’t check so I kept climbing and climbing.”
“After about 45 minutes into my climb I looked up to the summit of the mountain and all I could see was brown and gray trees, dirt,” Hotchkiss said.
Then his eyes landed on something.
“And within the tree line of the summit in the middle of the stream I saw a pink dot,” he explained, adding the dispatcher told them the girl was wearing a white skirt and pink shirt.
Once he found the stream and followed it, he saw the little girl.
“She was laying on her stomach on a rock. I ran over to her as quick as possible and was calling her name. I saw her arm move and I knew she was alive. My heart just dropped, I was so excited. I ran up and she hugged me immediately and she wouldn’t let go,” he recalled.
Once Hotchkiss alerted the other searchers, Trooper Jason Stirk wrapped the girl in his uniform and Hotchkiss carried her to safety.
The New York State Police shared a photo of the trooper and the girl who was cold and wet but otherwise unhurt after wandering away from home:
On Saturday, Troopers from SP Canandaigua assisted the Ontario County Sheriff’s Office in a search for a missing… Posted by New York State Police on Monday, March 29, 2021
“I’ve seen these go really bad. We weren’t giving up. We were fearing the worst was going to happen. Her turning and looking at me, throwing her hands up in the air, that’s something I’ll never forget,” Hotchkiss said of the rescue.Fernando Montes de Oca narrowly escaped a house fire in his Texas home thanks to his four-legged friend Rocky.
Rocky, a three-year-old bull terrier mix, is the reason Montes de Oca is alive today, because of his life-saving bark.
Montes de Oca fell asleep on the couch in his detached garage when he heard Rocky barking loudly around 2:00 a.m.
“I thought I was dreaming. I woke up, and all I could see was flames,” he told WFAA.
Nobody else was around, and his garage was engulfed in flames. He was able to escape in time to get alive, but not without suffering deep second-degree burns to his hand that he used to push the door open.
“My sisters and my dad tell me, ‘God gave you a second chance, dude. I don’t know how you made it out of there’,” Montes de Oca recalled.
Rocky was rewarded with a big T-bone steak for his life-saving actions.
Rocky, the bull terrier, is not the only dog to save his owner’s life.
In October 2019, a dog saved a veteran owner’s life by waking him during a house fire. And in September 2020, a Great Dane rescued a family of four from a house fire.Robert and Amber Everson were holding an event for their community when the food truck they owned exploded. That same community gave back by raising money for their medical expenses.
Last week, the couple was finishing up a community event with their food truck, Bama BBQ 4 Ever, in Arizona when Robert heard whooshing sounds coming from the truck. When he opened the top of a gas tank, gas erupted, and there was a loud explosion.
Robert was flung from the front of the truck, and his chef’s jacket caught fire. His wife, Amber, stumbled out the back.
“I was pulling my chef jacket off … pulling it off, and all my skin on my arms, ears, back, neck, chest … everything just kind of came off with it,” Robert told KPNX. “And she’s coming out the back of the truck; you can see flames on her legs.”
Both Robert and Amber are recovering in a burn unit.
Robert is undergoing skin graft treatments while his wife Amber underwent surgery for her leg burns.
After hearing of the couple’s plight, Stephanie Donaldson and other food truck owners organized a local fundraiser to help with medical bills.
“We work together side-by-side every day, and so we all are here to support each other,” said Donaldson.
A GoFundMe account has also been set up to assist with medical bills. As of Monday afternoon, the page has raised nearly $54,000.A police officer on his way to help a citizen was saved recently when bystanders saw his car crash into a creek in Baltimore, Maryland.
Police said a Northeast District patrol officer was driving in the 2000 block of Echodale Avenue responding to a report about an attempted suicide when he hit another vehicle, according to WBAL.
“The other vehicle was traveling northbound on Herring Run Drive. When that vehicle attempted to turn left on to Echodale, the two vehicles collided,” Fox 45 reported.Beachgoers at Florida’s Panama City Beach formed a human chain to save a struggling swimmer from rough surf on Wednesday.
The dramatic rescue began around 1:00 p.m. Wednesday when a young girl swimming in the water began calling out for help because she got caught out in the tide, WMBB reported.
One woman was able to rescue the girl and get her safely to shore, but another woman attempting to rescue the girl got trapped in the rough waters.
That eventually inspired Ryan Stelmachers to take a raft and join in on the rescue mission. Pretty soon, four people were in the water.
“The current kept pulling us out, pulling us out, pulling us out,” he told WMBB. “Every time we’d take one step forward, it would take us back three steps.”
Stelmachers and his wife quickly came up with an idea to form a human chain and were able to pull everyone back to safety despite the rough waters.
Loredana Lupei recorded the rescue and uploaded the video to Storyful, which showed people cheering after everyone in the chain returned safely to shore.
Wil Spivey, beach safety director for Panama City Beach Fire Rescue, told the Panama City News-Herald that approximately 12 bystanders took part in the chain, which started in the Gulf of Mexico.
Spivey added that he cautioned against people forming human chains to save people from drowning, even from among the most experienced swimmers.
“I wouldn’t advocate that anybody who’s not trained to effect rescues [or] enter the Gulf to make rescues. Even if you’re a good swimmer, you can get overpowered by the conditions or the victim if they climb on top of you,” Spivey said.A Pennsylvania woman left her full-time job as an educator after 17 years to launch a charity aimed at helping veterans.
Christy Lucas said her inspiration to launch her charity, Roots for Boots, came from a calling to give to those who have served our country.
“I always had a giving heart and always just wanted to help people, and I think it just comes natural,” Lucas told CBS News.
Even when she served as a teacher and later principal at Annunciation School, she made sure “love of country” was always in the lesson plan.
“Veteran’s Day was my favorite,” she told WHTM. “I loved having military in our school.”
Roots for Boots hosts a food drive every month at the Hanover, Pennsylvania, VFW. The drive initially started helping out eight veterans in need.
Now, the drive serves nearly 90 veterans and dozens of volunteers — some of whom are veterans themselves — pitch in to make sure everything goes smoothly.
Veteran Vic Roe, a disabled veteran, called Lucas “an angel” and “more than remarkable” after she built a ramp for him to get around more easily.
Lucas said her charity has changed how her entire community has dealt with veterans. As for the money she sacrificed from leaving her job, she says that it all does not matter to her because of the satisfaction she gets from helping the community.
“I don’t make a dime doing this,” she said. “But I am by far the richest woman in the world.”A homeless Army veteran saved a man from a burning vehicle after a head-on collision in Florida’s Panhandle.
Freddie Finkley was near an intersection with his girlfriend, Stephanie Tidwell, on April 7 when they saw the crash on a highway overpass near Pensacola, the Associated Press reported.
Finkley pulled Eric Lopez, 34, from the vehicle as flames encased the dashboard.
“I ran down there, and flames started coming through the dashboard. I went in there, and I tried,” Finkley told WKRG. “He said, ‘Leave me.’ I said, ‘I can’t leave you. You’ll burn up.’ So I pried his hands loose from the steering wheel. This other guy came, and we picked him up and toted him up the bridge.”
Finkley’s quick actions saved Lopez’s life.
Lopez’s grandmother, Sandra McFall, met Finkley later on, thanking him for saving his grandson’s life.
“You’re truly God’s angel,” she said. “I praise God that you were here because you saved my grandson, and that means everything to me.”
The police department is also praising Finkley for his life-saving actions.
“Anybody that helps out another person — especially in this case where it could have or did save a life — we certainly appreciate that,” Pensacola Police Department spokesman Officer Mike Wood told the Pensacola News Journal. “It’s not very often that people want to get involved anymore, but he did.”Family, friends, and neighbors gave Korean War veteran Dave Rheinhart a big birthday parade recently in Tehachapi, California.
Rheinhart, a Navy veteran, turned 90-years-old on Wednesday and called the parade a “wonderful surprise,” according to the Tehachapi News.
Army veteran Jim Jacobs served as the event’s emcee while trucks, cars, and motorcycles paused in the road to extend well wishes to Rheinhart for his birthday.A former substitute teacher who fell on hard times and was living out of his car got help from one of his former students in the best way possible.
Jose Villarruel, 77, who goes by the nickname Mr. V, worked as a substitute teacher in California for decades. Steven Nava, a former student, remembered meeting Mr. V in 2014 during his freshman year of high school, USA Today reported.
“He was a pretty cool teacher, and like, you know, he wasn’t like those sorts of substitute teachers that would just take attendance and then, you know, just sit and have the whole class go crazy,” said Nava. “He was, like really passionate about making sure everybody, you know, is actually getting something out of the whole lecture.”
After Nava graduated high school, he began noticing Mr. V in his neighborhood.
“I really honestly never got the impression that, you know, he was homeless or anything. And then until like now this year, I started seeing him more frequently,” Nava said.
At first, Nava spotted Mr. V at the fast-food joint near where he went to college. Then, Nava noticed Mr. V’s car would be parked in his neighborhood each morning when he went to work.
What Nava did not know is that Mr. V had been living out of his car for eight years.
When the pandemic forced many businesses and schools to close and operate remotely, Villarruel decided to resign from his substitute teaching job so he could collect his pension, KTTV reported.
The money from his pension was not enough for him to sustain himself.
Villarruel told Nava about his situation, prompting Nava to give him $300 and a hotel room. Nava was able to locate temporary housing for Villarruel, but he wanted to do more for his beloved teacher.
So Nava created a GoFundMe to help his teacher. The first campaign raised $27,480. Nava’s GoFundMe got a lot of attention from the media, former students, and local officials.
So after Nava and the community gathered to present him with the first $27,000 check, Nava created another GoFundMe page called “Keep Mr. V Moving.”
As of Tuesday afternoon, the page raised more than $27,000, bringing the grand total of money raised for Villarruel to more than $55,000.
Villarruel plans to use the money to get a better living situation.A 14-year-old Florida boy and his father rescued a trapped child from an overturned car in a canal outside of their neighborhood Saturday afternoon.
Yury Shapshal was driving home after lunch with his three children when they saw people crowding around a canal near their Boca Raton home.
As they got closer, they saw a cloud of smoke rising from the canal. When Shapshal pulled over, he saw an overturned vehicle with someone on the canal’s bank shouting at a person in the vehicle.
“It was almost entirely submerged in the water,” Shapshal told the South Florida Sun-Sentinel. “It was obvious there was a child stuck in the car, and he was screaming his name. I had three in the car of my own, so that kind of hit me really hard, knowing there’s a child trapped in the car.”
Shapshal and his 14-year-old son, Samuel, jumped into the canal when they saw the overturned vehicle.
Shapshal pulled one of the doors open while Samuel hopped inside and dragged one of the boys to safety.
A larger crowd had gathered at the canal’s shoreline, with many panicking and not knowing what to do. Others were on the phone with 911.
It is unclear what caused the car to end up in the canal.
The Shapshal family was not the only Florida family to rescue people and animals stuck in a canal.
In February 2020, a group of Good Samaritans raced against the clock to rescue a woman trapped in a vehicle sinking into a Boca Raton canal. In January 2021, several Florida police officers rescued a family’s dog from drowning in a canal.A business owner named Deborah Keeling in Lynchburg, Virginia, made a special friend the moment a boy walked into her shop and asked her a question.
“I’ll never forget, the first thing he asked was if I’m a Christian,” Keeling recalled, according to WSLS.
The 11-year-old named Jamarius Burneson wanted to buy something for his mom’s gravesite, not just because it was her, but “because Jesus wants me to go, so I follow that,” said the boy whose biological mom, Alfreda, passed away in 2019 following her battle with diabetes.
Although his adoptive mother, Pattie Burneson, said Jamarius has autism and was also diagnosed with PTSD, he lives every day to the fullest.
“Jamarius touches people everywhere we go. He’s just a beautiful child. He has an amazing heart and considering what he’s been through in his life, he’s coming through really well,” she noted.
When Keeling, who owns ACCENTS Flags, Gifts, Home & Garden, learned a small nameplate was the only marker on the young man’s mother’s resting place and there was no gravestone, it got her thinking.
“I didn’t say anything, but thought to myself, ‘I’m going to see to it that that’s done, that a real marker is going to be put there,'” she said.
In a Facebook post on Tuesday, Keeling announced she was working to buy a grave marker for the site and numerous people responded by dropping off checks and money.
“Our longtime friends and customers at Baer & Sons Memorials are working with me on this endeavor. I have decided to purchase the stone as an act of love from a conviction from God for Jamarius,” the post continued.
Jamarius said the stone will read, “I love you, Mom, and I will see you in Heaven.”
According to WSLS, Keeling is paying around $500 for the stone as a gift to her friend and has received almost $500 in donations that will go toward the boy’s future.
Those who wish to donate may do so through Venmo at 434-258-9243 or leave a gift at the store located at 1716 Main St., Lynchburg, VA, 24504.A little boy in Elkview, West Virginia, is being called a hero for his quick thinking when he realized his neighbor was hurt.
Landon Haas is a preschool student who was playing on the swing in his backyard along Jakes Run Road on Tuesday when he heard someone call out, WSAZ reported.
A neighbor in his 70s had fallen down an embankment next to his driveway and tumbled into a creek.
“He sounded like he was almost dead,” Landon recalled, adding, “He was almost drowning in that water.”
The boy rushed into his house and alerted his mom, Lesley, about the cries for help.
“We walked out, and we heard it again, and he just kept screaming help,” his mom commented. “It had to be tough on a 5-year-old to hear that and witness that.”
Because of her son’s alertness and quick thinking, Lesley was able to notify four family members who came to help the neighbor out of the creek bed just before an ambulance arrived to transport him to a hospital for medical attention.
“I was crying so bad,” Landon told WSAZ. “I was crying for him.”
However, he was overjoyed when he learned the elderly man was going to recover.
“I was jumping everywhere, I was jumping on the couch,” Landon explained.
As for his mom, she said she is “beyond proud” of her child’s actions, adding the neighbor sustained a broken ankle and a head injury but came home from the hospital Wednesday.
WSAZ gave Landon the Hometown Hero Award and when reporter Andrew Colegrove asked if he felt like a hero for helping rescue his neighbor, Landon said, “Yep.”
Facebook users applauded the preschooler and said he has a compassionate heart.
“Landon, you are my hero! I am a former United States Marine, and young man, you are as brave as any one I have ever met! Yup!” one person commented.
“Great young man so glad he heard him and got help,” another user wrote.Seven-year-old Nicholas Bubeck of Scottsdale, Arizona has been running a successful toy business for a whole year.
In early 2020, Nicholas Bubeck started a business that made headlines across the country. Bubeck, abruptly robbed of school attendance and the ability to travel, started “Creations by Nicholas” to comfort others feeling the same frustration. “Last year during this time he was in kindergarten, six years old, and all of a sudden he wasn’t going back to school and he’s the oldest of my three boys,” mother Nadine Bubeck told the Arizona Republic on Wednesday.
How 6-year-old’s love of airplanes is helping babies in NICUs Nicholas Bubeck, who has a sky-high passion for airplanes and helping others, is bringing a whole new meaning to the term “small business.” https://gma.abc/3hj9RNv Posted by Good Morning America on Monday, July 20, 2020
“I really wanted to take advantage of the time being at home to teach my kids, particularly my oldest, something that they wouldn’t otherwise learn in the classroom,” she continued. “Entrepreneurial skills, innovation skills, and also public speaking skills has always been very important to me.”
Bubeck’s “kits” have all of the necessary components for a popsicle stick airplane, and a link to a video in which Nicholas himself teaches customers how to put it together. “I love traveling. Some people can’t travel right now so we wanted them to imagine where they want to travel in that plane,” Bubeck, now seven, said. “So my mom told me to start a business during the coronavirus and I made this cool craft plane and I wanted to turn it like into a kit. So I thought of a business named Creations by Nicholas and they sell all kinds of kits.”
Bubeck spent time in the NICU (neonatal intensive care unit) as a child, and now his business donates a portion of its profits to the Triple Heart Foundation — a charity providing books to NICUs across the U.S. He also provides free kits to children of essential medical workers.
“He’s really seeing what it’s like to pay it forward,” Nadine explained. “I teach him, you don’t monetize success it’s really how you feel. That’s really important for me as a mom to see my child really feeling more confident in himself. That is the most rewarding for me.”A New Mexico teen on her vacation to Orlando, Florida, became a hero when she rescued a toddler from drowning.
Kaydence Henslee, 13, was on vacation with her family and spending the day at the pool when she noticed a small, unconscious body floating in the pool’s deep end.
“I was scared and nervous and afraid, but my instincts kicked in,” Henslee told KRQE. “I just saw her kind of floating. She wasn’t technically on the bottom when I was there.”
The victim was three-year-old Haven Williams from Missouri, who was also vacationing with her family. Haven’s mother, Ashley, had exited the pool for a moment.
“I just remember seeing another woman run across and yell into the bar area for someone to call 911 because a baby had just drowned … I didn’t think it was my baby,” Ashley said.
Henslee helped Haven get out of the pool as her lips turned purple, and at that moment, Ashley recognized it was her own child based on the color of her swimsuit.
Another bystander helped Henslee perform CPR until Haven could be taken to the hospital. Haven is expected to make a complete recovery.
“Even the doctors are saying that whoever got her out of the water did it at a perfect time because if she would have been under the water a little longer, it would have been a different outcome,” Ashley said.
Both families are staying in touch after the ordeal. Kaydence said this incident inspired her to get CPR training.Alex Conlin saved an unnamed individual after a sinkhole opened, causing them to fall 30 feet into an old mine shaft.
Just after 6PM on Sunday, a man was attempting to access a storage facility when the ground opened up beneath him. The unidentified individual fell 30 feet into the darkness below, landing in an old abandoned mine shaft. Leadville/Lake County Fire Rescue wrote that “the bottom of this pit had substantial ice and water creating a very cold situation as well as unstable edges and sides of the pit.”
Leadville Public Works director Michael Irwin said the event was very unusual, though not unheard of. “It’s a possibility that at one point it had opened up in the wintertime and it was just covered with ice and the ice fell in,” he said. “…But this is really off the wall crazy. Usually, they happen in back yards or things like that.”
Leadville firefighter intern Alex Conlin was one of the first on the scene and willingly stepped forward to descend the hazardous hole. Within five minutes, Conlin was rigged with safety gear, and rappelling toward the victim. When he arrived, he found the man; cold, shocked, and distressed.
“He was very in shock from walking to the storage unit to falling straight through asphalt all the way down in that sinkhole,” Conlin told local CBS affiliate Channel 4. “I was just keeping him calm and letting him know that we’re going to get out of here soon.”
Approximately 90 minutes later, Conlin and the man were lifted out. Both were treated for hypothermia at the scene, before the victim was airlifted to a Denver hospital. He is expected to make a full recovery. Fire Chief Daniel Dailey said he was not surprised to learn of Conlin’s heroic act. “I’m not really surprised about that, he’s a fine individual,” Dailey told Channel 4. Conlin said he was just following a simple fire service adage.
“We have a saying in the fire service: risk a lot to save a life, risk a little to save a little and risk nothing to save that what’s already lost,” he said. “Looking down in that hole, me and my captain were on the same page that this is a ‘risk a lot to save a lot’ decision.”An equine rescue in South Carolina caught fire this weekend, completely destroying its barn and seriously injuring a horse. Now, the community is helping the rescue rebuild from the ground up.
The fire began around 7:00 p.m. Friday, sending a high cloud of smoke into the air. Only one horse by the name of Whistle was trapped inside the end stall.
“He was very lucky to get out. She pulled him out of a stall that was completely engulfed in smoke, and his shavings were on fire, and he was on fire as well,” Caroline Mulstay, Equine Rescue of Aiken manager told WRDW.
Fortunately, Whistle only suffered thermal burns from the heat on his back. His recovery time is unknown because those injuries usually take several days to form.
WJBF reported that the rescue consists of 90 acres, and it lost $100,000-$150,000 in medical supplies in addition to the barn.
Despite losing so much in the fire, the community is stepping in to rebuild the barn from the ground up.
Over the past two days, the community raised nearly $25,000 for the barn.
“Overwhelming … is the only word I have right now,” Mulstay said.
To help donate to the equine center, visit their website at aikenequinerescue.org.Two upstate New York communities are rallying to replace an autistic teen’s bicycle, which was stolen from his front yard.
Gabriel Osterhout, 14, was devastated when his bicycle was stolen. He rode his special three-wheel bicycle outside when the weather was warm several weeks ago and left it in the front yard overnight.
“He left his bike in the front yard, and the next morning, my wife noticed the bike was missing,” Gabriel’s father, John Osterhout, told WENY.
John posted on Facebook inquiring if anyone saw the bicycle around the neighborhood.
His Facebook friends responded, tipping him off to the location of the bicycle.
“I called the cops and then headed over to the location, and I recovered the bike. It was damaged. They ripped it apart,” John said.
But all was not lost.
The community banded together and raised $500 to go towards a replacement bike for Gabriel. Then, a local autobody shop offered to fix the damage on the bike and customize it.
Maguire Subaru in Ithaca also stepped up to help and bought a bike that they personally delivered to Gabriel.
“That was a really happy moment for me. I’m so glad that Maguire came and helped me out there. It was really nice of them, and I greatly appreciate it. I am grateful to everyone who donated also,” said Gabriel.
Now that Gabriel has two bicycles, he plans to use the money raised to pay it forward to give to kids in need.
Other communities have stepped forward to replace stolen or broken bicycles from people with autism.
In November 2019, neighbors from Fairview Park, Ohio, raised money for an autistic man’s replacement bicycle after it was stolen.
A month later, neighbors in River Falls, Wisconsin, gave a bicycle to an autistic man to replace his two-year-old bicycle that broke down.A family of three rescue dogs separated at birth were recently reunited at random in New York City on Manhattan’s Upper West Side.
The trio of dogs were a father and two sons, all rescues originally from Texas. They were adopted by three different families. And in a random chance event, the owners of the dogs say their pets reconnected miles away in New York City.
“We turn a corner, and Leo goes to this dog who is near a tree, and it was magnetic. The dogs truly recognized each other. It was a very different interaction than he had been having with other dogs,” Tara Derington told CBS New York.
At the same time, Jason Hellerstein was walking his dog named Marvin, whom he shared with his girlfriend, Mattie Kahn. Marvin also found an instant connection with the other dog.
“Marvin was definitely friendlier than he would otherwise be with a dog he didn’t know,” Kahn told the New York Post.
Derington asked Hellerstein what breed of dog Marvin is, and at the time, Hellerstein did not know because Marvin had been adopted from a Texas rescue just a few weeks before their chance encounter.
“I said he just came up from Texas. He says, ‘Our dog just came up from Texas. Is your dog from Dr. Doolittle’s Rescue Ranch?’ He was like, yes, and I was like, this is my dog’s dad!” Derington said.
But there is an even deeper connection than just the two dogs. Derington’s friend, Anne Sachs, later adopted Murray, Leo’s brother from the Texas shelter.
Now, all three dogs live neighborhoods away from each other. After the chance encounter, they each planned to meet up at the dog park near the Museum of Natural History with their dogs.A wounded Afghanistan veteran from Minnesota received a donated home from the Tunnel to Towers Foundation on Thursday.
Army Spc. John Mullen fought in the Afghanistan War and lost both of his legs. From then on, he lost much of his day-to-day independence until now.
The Tunnels to Towers Foundation donated a custom-built home in Lake Elmo on Thursday that can suit Mullen’s needs. The foundation builds specially-adapted smart homes for wounded veterans in need to help them regain their independence.
“It kind of seems unreal,” Mullen told KTSP. “I don’t think I fully comprehend how much of a difference it’s going to make, and I think I’ll realize that over time, but just completely blown away and overwhelmed.”
Before he got the chance to tour his custom-built home, Mullen raised an American flag in front of his house.
Mullen is not the first wounded war veteran to receive a home catered to his needs free-of-charge.
In October 2020, a disabled Marine veteran received a surprise, custom-built home from his Long Island, New York, community free of charge.
Other nonprofits such as Building Homes for Heroes have also built customized homes for wounded veterans at no cost to them.
In October 2019, a wounded Marine who fought in the Iraq War received a mortgage-free home thanks to Building Homes for Heroes, and in December 2019, a wounded Navy Seal received a mortgage-free home from the same nonprofit.A 97-year-old veteran got a surprise from his community for his birthday that he will never forget.
A veteran of World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War, George Vanvekoven goes by “Van” in his community and is known for telling captivating tales about his time in the Air Force.
So, his community decided they wanted to give back to this special member of their community.
Local restaurant Mission BBQ, members of local motorcycle groups, the New Hanover County Sheriff’s Office and the Fire Department, and American Honor Guards made a collective effort to celebrate Vanvekoven’s birthday with a parade, WWAY reported.
“Van is a VIP with us at Mission BBQ, and he’s part of our family,” said Faith Sipe, community ambassador with Mission BBQ. “When I heard that he was turning 97 years on April 2nd, I thought it would be nice to have one of those drive-by parades.”
Vanvekoven shared the secret to his longevity — having his wife around.
“I think having a good wife. That’s the main thing. I stole my wife from my buddy when I was 18. He said how about you take me to see my girlfriend. I took one look at her and said that’s the girl I want,” he said.
Four generations of Vanvekoven’s family were present for the parade.
Despite all the pomp and circumstance, Vanvekoven is grateful he gets to live to see another year.
“I’m lucky I got to see grandchildren. It’s a wonderful life,” said Vanvekoven.
Vanvekoven is not the first multi-war veteran to receive a birthday parade.
In January 2021, a two-time war veteran from Farmington, Utah, received a surprise parade for his 100th birthday from his community to celebrate the milestone occasion.
And in April 2020, a 100-year-old World War II veteran celebrated his 100th birthday with a car parade thanks to a little help from his community.According to Paws and Claws Adoption Center director Deb Potter, Hero was rescued from a hoarding situation in November once he broke through boarded windows and got the attention of neighbor Tonie Quinlin.
Quinlin said she was outside her house when she saw a dog hanging out of a broken window across the street.
“My girlfriend came over to look at that and she went over and she goes, ‘Well, it’s OK but oh my God the stench,'” she said, adding the pup was covered in feces.
Once Quinlin got a leash and saw the dog had jumped out the window, she recalled, “I got (the dog) and called the police department. He was in very bad shape.”
Five additional dogs were also removed from the home thanks to the pup’s actions.
“The others were adopted and doing great. He was a little tougher, that’s why I named him Hero … because he was the one who jumped out (and) saved the others,” Quinlin explained.
Paws and Claws shared Hero’s story on social media, which caught the attention of Lincoln Police Department Officer Melissa Ripley and Herrera.
Officer Ripley works as a trainer and adoption coordinator for Second Chance Pups (SCP), which places shelter dogs with inmates at the Nebraska State Penitentiary for obedience training before they are adopted.The Becks were gifted a fully-furnished mobile home on Sunday, after losing their former home during the September wildfires.
Charles and Linda Beck struggled in the wake of the wildfires, living in various hotels after their home at the Detroit RV Park was destroyed in the wildfires that scoured Oregon last year. “We came out of it with the clothes on our back and that was it,” Charles remembered. In the months that followed, the Becks were denied FEMA assistance multiple times.
Despite the mutual support of a 37-year marriage, hope was hard to hold onto. “So now here we sit. I don’t know how long the motel is going to hold out,” Charles said in March. “After that I guess we’re on God’s good graces because we have nothing.” As it happened, people working on behalf of God’s “good graces” were exactly\ who showed up.
On Sunday, a brand new mobile home rolled toward the Becks. “We got here early to make sure the spot was ready for them and when they come pulling in, we took one look at it and I was like, ‘Whoa look at that.’ I was jumping up and down [saying], ‘Over here! Over here!’”
After what he said was “about a two day conversation” between himself, the United Way, and Be Bold Street Ministries executive director Matthew Maceira, COO Josh Lair said they were finally able to “make this happen.”
Not only did the Becks suddenly find themselves with a new home — it was furnished the same day. “Next thing you know, United Way opens up her vehicle and starts hauling stuff out. All brand new pots and pans, dishes, glasses,” Beck said.
“They literally don’t have to worry about a thing. They can move right in and have bedding, kitchen items, everything will be ready for them,” Elizabeth Schrader, chief development officer of the United Way of the Mid-Willamette Valley, told the station. She said their organization has provided about 20 fully-stocked mobile homes to families in need.
But there was still one more blessing in store: Partnered with Roberson Motors in Salem, Be Bold Street Ministries were also able to offer the couple a 2009 Ford Focus with all the necessary inspections taken care of. “We don’t have the red tape that sometimes comes along with different things, so we’re always trying to figure out how to better support our community, better support people in need,” Lair said.
The Becks, along with their dog Brandy, thanked God for the unexpected blessing. “I’m just thrilled,” Linda Beck said. “The good Lord has blessed us good.”An anonymous Ohio man offered $4,000 in Dunkin’ gift cards to pay for hundreds of customers’ orders this week.
Store manager Samantha Owens told WHIO an unnamed gentleman first tried purchasing $1,000 in Dunkin’ gift cards at the drive-thru window. After employees told him he would need to come inside for a purchase that large, he did just that — and upped the ante to $4,000.
“I think I probably asked him about a million times, ‘are you positive, are you sure?’” Owens remembered, but the man was certain. “He had really just wanted to explain how rough the year was and how he wanted to do any way [sic] he could to pay it forward,” she said, “and this was his best way to pay it forward.”
The rest of the morning was very different at the Beavercreek, Ohio, location. “Food, breakfast sandwiches, coffee, you name it. It was all free,” Owens said. All told, their anonymous benefactor covered 300 customers’ orders.
The gesture inspired other customers to join in a cascade of generosity. “When customers heard that their orders were taken care of, they asked to pay it forward to the person behind them, but we had to explain that they were taken care of as well,” said Owens. “It was hilarious because all anyone wanted to do was pay it forward, again.”When Pamela Willis saw a Facebook post in 2019 about seven siblings who needed a home, she had no idea her and her husband’s lives were about to change.
“I really felt at that moment that those were supposed to be my children,” Willis recalled, according to Fox 5. “It’s hard to explain, but I just have this really deep feeling like that.”
The kids had been in foster care for over a year after they lost their parents in a car accident.
Although Willis and her husband Gary had fostered children before and have five adult biological kids, the idea to adopt never entered their minds.
Willis tagged her husband in the post and later asked if he read it. To her surprise, he told her they should adopt the children.
“It was one of those moments where we were both really feeling that that was what we were being called to do,” she noted.
A few months later, they met the siblings, 15-year-old Adelino, 13-year-old Ruby, Aleecia, 9; Anthony, 8; Aubriella, 7; Leo, 5; and Xander, 4.
The couple learned the children had also experienced homelessness in addition to their late parents’ struggles regarding addiction.
“We were just kind of open to whatever knowing that these kids had been through extra trauma being in this huge car accident with their parents, because they were actually in the accident with their parents, so they all had been injured,” Willis said.
“They all had been through hospitalizations… we knew they had been through a lot,” she continued.
In August, the couple officially adopted the siblings and the family currently lives in Menifee, California.
“From the day we met them, they were ours,” Willis told Fox. “This was a forever commitment.”
She now uses her social media profiles to encourage others to reach out to people who need help.Mary Ann Pyron ran a total of 321 miles in March for her son, and to spread awareness of Down syndrome.
Pyron has spent her life caring for Blake, her son. Blake’s story is an extraordinary one. In 2018, he became Texas’ first individual with Down syndrome to own a business, and the youngest, at 20 years old, in his hometown of Sanger.
Blake has been internationally recognized for the achievement, “featured on international news, appeared in the Huffington Post, A&E Latinoamerica, Unworthy, Reddit and even on the Today Show Australia.” He also drew praise from Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, and Senator Ted Cruz.
But besides the pride she felt for her son’s many achievements, Pyron said she saw his health declining. “That’s when we really made the commitment to getting him moving, getting us all moving,” she remembered.
Together, Pyron and her son began running. After seeing his health improve, Pyron decided to double down. In honor of her son and National Down Syndrome Day on March 21, Pyron decided to run 321 miles in a month.
Despite ample motivation, Pyron said March’s personal challenge was a big one. “Every time I get to where I want to quit, I just think of all the challenges that Blake and his friends deal with daily,” she said. It worked: Three days before the end of the month, Pyron reached her goal.
Pyron said all of the effort was more than worth it. “I would do anything to keep him safe and healthy,” she said. “I would run a million miles for Blake.”An 11-year-old girl in Bellevue, Nebraska, has been working hard to raise money to buy a police K-9 vest.
“He works patrol and narcotics. So patrol being he’ll go out and find bad guys for us and narcotics he’ll sniff for drugs,” Bellevue police officer Jim Bartley told WOWT of his K-9 named Max.
The department’s K-9 unit has four dogs but only two have the vests they need.
“It’s not something we can budget for because the dog’s life, working life is anywhere from 5-7 years. So typically it’s not something we’re able to buy,” Bartley explained.
However, when Izzy Greenfelder learned of the need, she decided to help by selling dog treats through her mom’s company, Dogalicous Dog Treats.
“When we went to their training they said they wanted lightweight, bulletproof vests, so I wanted to help them,” she commented.
In the course of the past year, Izzy raised more than $2,000 to purchase a custom vest for Max that will keep him safe while working with his partner.
“I have a vest on that I always wear to work, and it makes me more confident when I go out and do my job,” Bartley said, adding, “So now knowing that Max has one as well, this is a really nice gift.”
In a Facebook post on Saturday, Dogalicious Treats shared a photo of Izzy and Max wearing his vest, writing, “A special thank you to all of my wonderful customers, family, and friends that helped her goal come true”:
K-9 Max's vest finally arrived! I am so incredibly proud of Izzy and all of her work to collect money to help protect… Posted by Dogalicious Treats on Saturday, March 27, 2021
Although it is the first K-9 vest the company bought, it will not be the last.
“Starting this year wear doing dog scarves and now dog seatbelts that we’re putting labels and just different crafts on to keep raising money,” said Izzy’s mom, Brandi Kawula.
“So whether it’s for another dog for Bellevue or maybe one of the other community areas,” she concluded.A single father of four had the misfortune of losing his home to a fire on March 19, but he and his family have been able to get through these difficult times thanks to their Vallejo, California, community.
Troy Gaskin and his four kids have been staying in a motel since a fire ravaged their rental home, and the single father said he has been looking for a place to live that is suitable for his four boys, all ranging in age from seven to thirteen.
Gaskin said he was taking a nap and was recuperating from a heart attack he had the week before when the fire broke out.
“I grabbed the kids, got them outside, called 911, and just waited. I was in a daze,” Gaskin told KTVU.
The home is now boarded up and deemed unlivable.
Gaskin lost his job installing home theater systems at the beginning of the pandemic, adding that he did not have renters’ insurance to cover the items lost in the fire, including the laptops his sons used for distance learning.
Allison Hill heard about the Gaskin family’s situation and started a GoFundMe page to help them. As of Monday afternoon, the page has raised more than $25,000.
“They need a home. They need somebody who’s going to understand their situation and help them out,” Hill said.
Gaskin said he is grateful for the outpouring of support from the community. He added that everything he and his sons have had been donated.
Gaskin eventually hopes to move out of the motel and find a stable home for his boys.
“I’ve got to be here for these boys. I’m all they have,” Gaskin said. “I want to show them this is the right path. If you have a child, you need to take care of that child. That’s what I’m trying to instill in these kids.”
Gaskin is not the only single parent who lost a home to a fire recently and had help from the community.
A community in Canada rallied around a single mother of two who also lost her home and possessions to a house fire in September 2020.A stray canine in North Carolina that repeatedly tried to steal a purple stuffed unicorn from a Dollar General has been adopted.
Duplin County Animal Services was called to the store after Sisu, a one-year-old Labrador mix, kept entering a Dollar General store and stealing a large, purple stuffed unicorn.
Officer Samantha Lane caught Sisu in the middle of the act, took him to the shelter, and bought him the $10 toy for the duration of his stay at the shelter.
Duplin County Animal Services announced Friday that Sisu had been adopted.
Dollar General spokesperson Crystal Luce told People Magazine the store wants to send a “few extra purple unicorns for the adoptive family,” a pet food donation to the animal shelter, and a thank you gift to Lane.A Texas couple, Quentin “Q” and Courtney Alexander, were ready to welcome an adopted child into their home. The only problem: they needed a little financial help before the adoption process could move forward.
Their local church community sensed those needs and immediately went to work to help the couple.
Solid Rock Fellowship Out West by The Misfits in Christ held a fish fry and bike rodeo on Saturday to help raise money for the adoption, KWES reported.
Q said he was very grateful for the support.
“You have people that support, you have people that love you, but when you ask hey can you help us and you have multitudes of people come to help out no questions asked, no hesitation, it’s always heartwarming to be reminded not of just families love and friends love but God’s love through them,” said Q.
Other families who have gone through the adoption process have relied on their communities for financial support.
One Wisconsin family fundraised in July 2020 so they could adopt a child of color, the Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel reported.
That family raised $45,000 to cover all costs of the adoption, including legal fees and home study visits.Jim Penick was surprised when an anonymous donor paid the entire cost of a major dental procedure he could not afford.
An unidentified woman offered thousands to 77-year-old Jim Penick, who was discouraged by the price tag on a major tooth replacement procedure. Even with insurance, the dental surgery to be performed by Independence Family Dentistry would require another $8,000.
The practice suggested Penick could have the teeth extracted, but delay the rest of the procedure until he could pay. “Well, they said, ‘You could get the extractions done and go without teeth for three months,’” Penick recalled. “Well, I thought, for $1,000 a month, I could go without teeth. I could eat a lot of soup.”
Penick left the office discouraged. “When I left here, I thought, ‘How can I cut this back where I could afford it?’” he said. “I’m 77 years old. I still work. I drive a truck. I’ve been laid off since December.” But less than an hour after he walked out the door, they called him back. A long-time patient at their office had offered to cover his procedure in full.
“They called me back and said there was some lady willing to pay for everything my insurance wouldn’t pay for,” Penick remembered. “It blew me away. I didn’t know what to do or what to say. But she’s got to be such a loving kind and giving person.” He expressed his gratitude for the life-changing money, and said he plans to do the same for someone else, someday.
Penick told Fox 19 he would use the money he saved to visit his four-month-old grandson. Penick’s son, a 12-year Navy veteran, never got to meet his son, after he was taken in a fatal car accident on the way to work. Penick carries some of his ashes around his neck, and wants to connect with his grandson — even if the little one is too young to understand. “I know he won’t know me,” Penick said of his grandson. “But I’d like to have some pictures of him with me to carry in my wallet, like I do of my son.”Riley-Jo Peltier was born prematurely at 23 weeks and four days, spending 133 days in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) with a small, pink and brown blanket.
Although doctors gave Riley-Jo a five percent chance of living, she beat all the odds for the past 12 years of her life. But her early start in life has left her with some lasting medical conditions that have caused her to be in and out of hospitals for most of her life.
Throughout those hospital stays and doctors’ visits, her brown and pink blanket has been right beside her: until this Monday.
The family had been to DeVos Children’s Hospital for another 15-hour emergency room visit when they noticed after coming home the next day that the blanket was missing, WZZM reported.
Riley-Jo is largely nonverbal, but she kept repeating the words “black and pink.”
“I’m like, your brown and pink?” said Kathy-Jo, her mother. “Did you lose it? And she said, yes. I said, do you know where? She said, ER, ER.”
Kathy-Jo called the hospital, but they told her it did not turn up in any lost-and-found bins. Just when she thought it might be lost for good, she made a last-ditch effort to post for help on Facebook.
Soon, hundreds of comments poured in and people offered to buy and make new ones, as well as help her search for the blanket.
Meanwhile, a registered nurse working the pediatric surgery floor at the hospital noticed a brown and pink blanket at a nurse’s station the next day.
Courtney LeClaire took a mental note of its color and design, but did not think much of it until she saw Kathy-Jo’s Facebook post.
“And as soon as I saw the little tag at the bottom, she had attached some pictures,” said LeClaire, “I knew that that was the one I had seen at the hospital.”
LeClaire had her parents drop off the blanket to the Peltier family since they lived close to each other.
On Thursday night, there was a knock at the Peltier family’s door. It was LeClaire’s parents, who dropped off the blanket.
Riley-Jo, through a communication app, replied, “Thank you so much.”Five-year-old Blake Pera adores going to the park and swinging at the playground, according to his mother, Jessica, and his babysitter, Rebecca Rowe.
His family moved to Key Largo in September, but Jessica later noticed there were no swings for children with special needs at Key Largo Park, Keys Weekly reported on Thursday.
However, thanks to help from the community and Monroe County, the little boy with cerebral palsy is having fun again.
“Blake has outgrown the infant swings and needs a supportive swing that accommodates children with disabilities,” Jessica explained. “This adventurous, active and fun boy has all the energy of a typical 5-year-old, but a body that just doesn’t cooperate.”
According to the Mayo Clinic’s website, cerebral palsy is a group of disorders that affect a person’s movement, muscle tone, or posture.
“In general, cerebral palsy causes impaired movement associated with abnormal reflexes, floppiness or rigidity of the limbs and trunk, abnormal posture, involuntary movements, unsteady walking, or some combination of these,” the site read.
An idea for a special needs swing at the park gained traction after Rowe posted about it on a local Facebook community page along with Blake’s story.
“On March 14, Monroe County and Robert Glassmer, administrator of buildings, parks and beaches, had installed a swing Blake wanted at Key Largo Park. Above the swing is a name plate with Blake’s name,” the Weekly reported.
Upon arriving to the Keys, mom Jessica Pera said she noticed there were no swings for special needs children, like her… Posted by The Weekly Newspapers on Thursday, March 25, 2021
Jessica expressed her thanks to neighbors for giving her son the opportunity to enjoy the park.
“Everybody from this community came in to help. We’re blown away and grateful to be part of this community,” she stated, adding that Blake has a great sense of humor and loves spending time with his two brothers.
Residents have been very welcoming to their family since they arrived, and Jessica said people like to say “hi” to her son.
“We just want to say thanks to the community for such a warm welcome to Key Largo. We’re excited to call this home and appreciate the community and all the love they have given to Blake and the boys,” she concluded.Duplin County Animal Services posted a series of heartwarming images of “Sisu” with his plush companion on Monday.
One-year-old Labrador mix “Sisu” was found at the scene of the crime by Duplin County Animal Services on Monday. The homeless pup had repeatedly tried to steal a stuffed purple unicorn from the Kenansville Dollar General before he was apprehended.
“He went straight for the unicorn, the same one every time,” said Duplin County Animal Services supervisor Joe Newburn. “It was so strange, one of the strangest calls I’ve ever dealt with.” Fortunately for the wayward mutt, the responding officer decided to purchase the toy, letting Sisu take it with him to the shelter.
This is what happens when you break into the dollar general consistently to steal the purple unicorn that you layed… Posted by Duplin County Animal Services on Monday, March 22, 2021
The official Facebook page later posted pictures of their would-be felon and his prize. The post read:
This is what happens when you break into the dollar general consistently to steal the purple unicorn that you layed claim to, but then get animal control called to lock you up for your B & E and larceny but the officer purchases your item for you and brings it in with you.
Over the next several days, calls poured in from individuals interested in giving Sisu and his much quieter friend a home. On Friday, the Animal Services team announced Sisu was headed for a new life. What’s more, the folks from the Dollar General sent over a few spare unicorns, just in case Sisu needed them in his bright new future.WARSAW, Poland (AP) — They locate survivors in collapsed buildings, track down fugitives, foil drugs and explosives smugglers and help control rowdy crowds. All in exchange for food and lodging — and an occasional pat on the head.
But when retirement time comes, state care ends for the dogs and horses that serve in Poland’s Police, Border Guard and Fire Service. They are given away, with no safeguards for their future welfare.
Following appeals from concerned service members, the Interior Ministry has proposed new legislation that would give these animals an official status, and paid retirement to help cover the often costly care bills their new owners face.
Interior Minister Mariusz Kaminski described the draft law as a “moral obligation” which should get unanimous backing when presented in Parliament for approval later this year.
“More than one human life has been saved, more than one dangerous criminal caught thanks to the animals in service,” he said in February.
The new law would affect some 1,200 dogs and more than 60 horses currently in service.
Each year, some 10% of the animals are retired, according to the Interior Ministry. Most of the dogs are German or Belgian Shepherds.
Pawel Kuchnio, handler of Warsaw police sniffer dog Orbita, says retired dogs almost always require expensive medical care, to deal with complaints such as strained hind joints.
The pension money “will certainly be a great help and will make things easier,” he said.
The bill would confirm the unwritten rule that the animals’ handlers have priority in keeping them before they’re offered up for adoption.
But more importantly, it would extend state responsibility for the animals into their retirement time and secure financial support for the owners.
Slawomir Walkowiak, 50, a former policeman caring for retired service dogs and horses at Poland’s only dedicated shelter, named “The Veterans’ Corner,” says regular state payments would ease concern over bills that reach into thousands of zlotys (dollars) monthly.
The privately run, farm-like shelter in Gierlatowo, west-central Poland, houses 10 dogs, and five retired police horses in a spacious paddock.
The oldest horse there, Hipol, is in his late 20s and almost blind. Walkowiak says he would have a slim chance of surviving at a regular stable.
Walkowiak says many service dogs end up chained to posts or being given unsuitable tasks, as people think they would make good guardians for farms or other properties. This isn’t always the case.
“The dog may suddenly remember that it was trained to bite and it will start biting, and when left alone at home it may demolish the couch because it needs to have something in its mouth,” Walkowiak said.
In Warsaw, mounted police officer Dariusz Malkowski says he would have to pay the stabling fees for his 13-year-old black gelding Rywal if he were to keep him after retirement.
A stable box near Warsaw can cost some 2,500 zlotys ($650) a month. The average pre-tax monthly salary in Poland is some 5,500 zlotys ($1,400).
On patrol with Malkowski was Sgt. Katarzyna Kuczynska, riding 13-year-old Romeo II, or Romek, who can identify Kuczynska by her voice.
“These animals have worked for the state, they have done their jobs well and they should be entitled to health care and proper retirement — on green pastures in the case of horses,” Kuczynska said.An anonymous couple paid for one year of medical school tuition for all 60 members of the Texas Christian University and University of North Texas Health Sciences Center School of Medicine Class of 2024.
The school, which is in Fort Worth, Texas, said the anonymous couple gave the gift to students who began their medical training last July.
The donation will fully cover their second year.
TCU Chancellor Victor Boschini Jr. told KDFW the gift was “life-changing” because, on average, medical school students graduate with more than $250,000 in debt.
“Medical school is challenging enough. This gift will alleviate some of the burden of debt as our students focus on learning and leading in providing capable and compassionate patient care. I am so grateful for this extraordinary gift to these future physicians,” he said.
When the members of the Class of 2024 received the good news, they were incredibly grateful.
“The first year of medical school is hard and with the pandemic, this has been even harder,” said Lauren Moore, a TCU and UNTHSC School of Medicine student. “This gift means so much. I’m so grateful.”
This is the second class at TCU and UNTHSC School of Medicine that has received free tuition.
Donor Paul Dorman funded the first year for the school’s inaugural class of 60 students back in 2019.
The TCU and UNTHSC School of Medicine is not the only medical school that had received such a large donation to cover tuition.
In July 2018, the University of Houston announced its $3 million gift would fund the inaugural class of the College of Medicine’s tuition in full.
We've got it covered! With a recent $3 Million gift, the inaugural class of the UH College of Medicine will have their tuition paid in full. Thank you to all of our supporters for helping us address the need for primary care in our community. #UHHereWeGo pic.twitter.com/ywFieVN2H9 — University of Houston (@UHouston) July 18, 2018
New York University also announced in 2018 it would offer free tuition to all medical school students going forward regardless of their ability to pay.
The move was made to lessen recent graduates’ debt burden and address the shortage of physicians in lower-paying specialties, such as primary care and research.A three-year-old boy saved his money to buy pizza for two separate Georgia law enforcement agencies.
Alex Bond saved his birthday money, Christmas money, and his allowance since October 2020 so he could buy enough pizzas to feed first responders in Georgia, WGXA reported.
He first visited the City of Griffin’s police department to deliver the special treat.
But Alex did not stop there. He also stopped by the Spalding County Sheriff’s Office to give them pizza as well.
“Alex-when you are old enough, we look forward to pinning the badge of the Spalding County Sheriff’s Office on your uniform!” the sheriff’s office said in response:
Recently, three-year old Alex Bond visited the Sheriff’s Office. We love visitors, but this visitor had a special… Posted by Spalding County Sheriff’s Office on Wednesday, March 17, 2021
Alex is not the only one to give away pizza to those on the frontlines. A Connecticut pizza shop pitched in to help feed the doctors and nurses fighting the coronavirus pandemic last year.
There was even one instance where the police returned the favor to the community. A team of three police organizations in New Jersey purchased 300 pizzas for their community during the state’s statewide stay-at-home order last year.A police chief in Hutchinson, Kansas, is challenging every officer to do a random act of kindness after an officer was discovered mowing a lady’s lawn.
Officer Wells received a lot of praise since he mowed the woman’s lawn over the weekend. The woman has health issues and struggled to complete the task on her own.
The Hutchinson Police Department caught Officer Wells in the act and decided to post the photo of him on Facebook on Monday as an example of how other officers in the department should act.
“Our Chief has issued a challenge to every officer. ‘What positive impact did you make in your community today?’” wrote the police department.
Police officers across the country have done random acts of kindness above and beyond their duties. In December 2020, Breitbart News reported that an Arizona police officer adopted a toddler he found during a welfare check.
In June 2020, the Florida State Highway Patrol helped a mother deliver her baby on the side of the road.
And in February 2019, a New Jersey police officer left a $100 tip and a kind note for a pregnant waitress.Melvin, a pit bull who spent 667 days in a Los Angeles, California, shelter, got the perfect birthday present this year — a forever family.
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Los Angeles (spcaLA) said in a statement Wednesday that the dog had been adopted after a two-year-long wait.
“Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Los Angeles (spcaLA) waited almost two years to say these words: Melvin has left the building! At 3 years and 10 months, Melvin was set to celebrate another birthday at spcaLA, but instead, he’ll celebrate with his new family,” the statement read.
Melvin is one of the 1,298 animals spcaLA had adopted since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic.
The shelter said Melvin’s adopted family has two other pit bulls and “years of large breed experience.”
The shelter tried to find Melvin’s perfect home using social media but ultimately discovered that he was not being adopted due to his breed and the color of his fur.
Eventually, an adoption counselor matched Melvin to his forever family. The spcaLA president thanked the staff and Melvin’s adopted family for welcoming him into their home.
“While I thank the family for adopting, and the staff for working so hard for Melvin, I would be remiss if I didn’t thank our supporters, whose help makes everything we do possible,” spcaLA president Madeline Bernstein said.
Melvin is not the first long-time resident of a shelter to find his forever home. A dog named Demi, who spent 809 days at a Southern Illinois shelter, found her forever home on March 7.
Days before Demi’s adoption, a senior dog named Baby Girl was adopted after spending seven years in a shelter.
And in January, a shepherd pit bull mix named Sarge got adopted after spending 628 days in a shelter.A Southwest Airlines employee recently returned a child’s Buzz Lightyear toy he accidentally left behind on a plane, along with an incredible surprise.
“Hagen Davis has since been reunited with his beloved action figure all thanks to a ramp agent named Jason at Little Rock Airport in Arkansas,” People reported Friday.
“Soon, a name written on the bottom of the boot caught Jason’s eye: ‘Hagen.’ With the help of Beth, his Coheart, Jason learned there was only one ‘Hagen’ who had traveled on that aircraft that day,” the airline said, adding he came up with a plan:
In a Facebook post on March 10, Southwest said Jason knew the child would miss their toy, so he began working to identify its owner.
Hagen and his family had landed at Dallas Love Field and were already driving off in a rental car when they realized… Posted by Southwest Airlines on Wednesday, March 10, 2021
Hagen and his family got a huge surprise in the mail a few days later.
“Not only was his buddy returned, but he arrived in a hand-decorated box, complete with a letter describing his mission at Southwest Airlines, and pictures to boot,” the airline said.
The letter detailed Buzz’s time away:
To Commander Hagen: I am very excited to return to you upon completing my mission. I was able to explore the airport and spaceport in Little Rock, Arkansas while I was away and I have included photos of my adventure. My journey has taught me a lot but I am so thankful to return to my buddy. To infinity and beyond! Your Buddy, Buzz Lightyear – Space Ranger
Hagen’s mom, Ashley Davis, explained in a Facebook post the story began when their family was traveling to Dallas after her husband’s uncle unexpectedly passed away.
“A week or so after returning home from the funeral we received an email from Jason out of the Little Rock SWA airport that he had found Buzz and wanted to return him to our Buckaroo!” she wrote, along with sharing a video of Hagen unwrapping the toy:
Posted by Ashley Davis on Monday, March 1, 2021
“There’s definitely not enough good in this world, and for someone to take the time out of their day to do that for strangers means the world to us,” she told the airline.A 96-year-old World War II veteran is still serving his country by knitting and donating hats to the Salvation Army.
Tom Cornish is a resident at the Champlin Shores senior living community in Minnesota who began knitting hats amid the coronavirus pandemic, according to CNN.
In 2020, he donated 400 of them to the Salvation Army and still knits every day, planning to donate all of his creations to people in need.
“Well they need a lot of hats and you got to have donors for that,” he told reporters of the inspiration for his project.
The Navy veteran volunteered to serve in the Pacific during World War II. Upon his return home, he kept volunteering while raising five children with his wife, Lorraine.
After she passed away, he married Marvel and they also worked together as volunteers before her passing.
“This is how he got to be 96 years old, because he’s helping everybody else,” said his son, Jerry Cornish. “Everybody’s more important than he is, in his mind.”A farm dog is being hailed as a hero for alerting humans to a fire at a historic Massachusetts barn built more than 200 years ago.
Fire crews responded to the Natick Community Organic Farm on Eliot Street shortly after 4:30 a.m. Wednesday, WBZ reported.
The farm announced in a Facebook post that the barn had “burned to the ground” and three sows and 13 piglets died, but no humans were harmed thanks to Eddy the dog’s quick actions.
“She was so scared when she got here. But, she loves the farm and clearly wants to take care of it,” said Abby Biser of the Natick Organic Farm. “Now she’s not only my love, but my hero.”
The farm also thanked Natick firefighters for putting out the fire and farmworkers who could move vehicles away from the blaze.
The farm will be closed until Monday while officials investigate the cause of the fire.
The barn was built in 1815 using trees knocked down during a hurricane. The community farm has operated in Natick since 1975 and gets about 20,000 visitors per year.
The farm said that in addition to the barn and the pigs that were lost, the blaze also destroyed wheelbarrows, animal grain, hay, seedlings, and tools. The farm has started a GoFundMe page to ask for donations so they can recoup their losses.
As of Thursday afternoon, the page has raised more than $190,000.Hopkinton Police Officer Rob Ekross personally ensured 7-year-old Carver St. Pierre would not miss another birthday celebration because of quarantine.
Aspiring police officer Carver missed last year’s birthday celebrations due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, but Hopkinton Police Officer Rob Ekross was not about to allow the second one pass without a surprise to brighten the day, WCVB reported.
Ekross spent his own time and money to buy and personally deliver gifts to the aspiring police officer on his seventh birthday, “all done under the watchful eye of Dad Tom, and older brother Grady, and of course Sandy the dog.”
7 year old Carver St Pierre has missed two birthdays due to covid. Officer Rob Ekross, on his own, purchased a couple… Posted by Hopkinton, MA Police Department on Tuesday, March 16, 2021
The department posted pictures posted to Facebook early Tuesday morning, the department wished Carver a happy birthday. “Happy Birthday Carver and we look forward to your service as a Hopkinton Police Officer in 2035!” the official Hopkinton Police Department Facebook wrote.
Ekross is in good company: A similar story unfolded in Greenboro, North Carolina on Tuesday, when another future officer — six-year-old Cameron — was treated to a surprise visit to the Greensboro Police Department.
“I encourage him to chase his dreams,” Cameron’s mom Maegen Carn said of her son. “With everything going on I wanted to encourage him that he can be the change that we needed.”Eight-year-old bulldog “Sampson” was saved by the quick reaction of two Long Island Rail Road members last Tuesday.
Mike Francow was sitting down for lunch at an East Hampton park when his bulldog took off on an impromptu adventure. The Suffolk County building contractor told the New York Post that Sampson, his eight-year-old bulldog, is “the type of dog that always returns,” usually to his van. But after searching the area, a self-described “distraught” Francow had to return to work.
Meanwhile, Sampson’s adventure had brought him onto nearby train tracks — and into the path of an oncoming engine. “As a dog lover, it’s like my worst fear to hit a dog,” LIRR engineer Christian Beck said. “Luckily it was a section of track where the max speed you can go is only like 40 miles an hour. It was enough time to react and slow the train.”
Beck, alongside assistant conductor Vinny Fragale, hopped down onto the tracks to get Sampson clear. And even though he was missing a ticket, they invited him along for the remainder of their jaunt from Jamaica to Montauk. “I could tell, like, ‘Oh he’s been out for a while, he just wants some shade,'” Beck recalled. “I was thinking about my own dog, like, you know, if he was left out. Or he had gotten out somewhere else. I’d be totally scared.”
After coaxing Sampson aboard, the two crewmembers gave him some water to help him cool down on the remainder of their trip. “He loves to ride, so I’m sure when the train pulled up and they opened the door he was like, ‘Sure, this is great,'” Francow said. He was reunited with Sampson just 20 minutes after the train’s arrival at the Montauk station, after conductor Mike Stabile posted their newfound friend to local lost pet Facebook groups.
They still managed to arrive at their scheduled stop on time, just before 1:00 p.m. LIRR President Phil Eng praised Beck and Fragale’s quick thinking and big hearts in a statement to PEOPLE, promising a formal thank-you:
This act of heroism is another example of how our workforce is truly part of the community where they live and serve. Our conductors and engineers and other frontline workers are truly compassionate people who take pride in helping their Long Island neighbors. As a dog owner myself I am glad that our crew went above and beyond to rescue Sampson and connect him with his owner. I look forward to providing a commendation for all of these employees and working with our labor leaders to acknowledge the true spirit of the workforce.
“Those are some really special people to do that and take care of him,” Francow echoed, and promised to put a proper tag on Sampson’s collar to prevent the near-deadly escapade from happening again.A Missouri police officer is being praised for his heroic actions after he saved an elderly couple from a house fire.
St. Charles County Officer Scott Ronald, who has been serving as an officer for 11 years, received a call from the dispatcher saying two elderly, disabled people were trapped in a home that was on fire.
“I was literally a block away, and it was just one of those calls where you’re preparing yourself mentally, immediately,” Ronald told KTVI.
When Ronald arrived, the residents’ granddaughter was outside the burning home and told him her two grandparents were trapped inside.
“Everything inside was covered in smoke. There were flames everywhere inside,” Ronald said. “I found an elderly female lying on a bed. She couldn’t walk, she couldn’t move, she had no idea why I was in there; and I also found an elderly male in the back room. I carried her and I also guided her through.”
Ronald fought his way through the smoke to bring the woman to safety. Another officer rescued the man. No injuries were reported.
Ronald said he never thought about waiting for firefighters and knew he needed to act immediately to save the lives of the couple in the house.
After the rescue, the Cottleville Fire Protection District arrived to put out the fire.
The fire department later honored Ronald’s actions in a Facebook post.
“To Officer Ronald, Officer Wilson, and all those that responded to this fire, THANK YOU for your dedication to our community,” Cottleville Fire Protection District wrote.
Ronald was not the only hero who went out of his way to save someone from a fire this week. A 70-year-old U.S. Marine Corps. veteran in Pennsylvania rushed into a burning building on Monday morning to save his neighbor.An anonymous benefactor in Charleston recently gave $1 million to the Red Cross of South Carolina, according to a spokesman for the organization.
The woman presented the gift during American Red Cross Month that is commemorated every March, spokesman Ben Williamson told WCSC.
“I feel a commitment to the Red Cross and feel a level of ownership toward our lifesaving mission. It’s part of my volunteer responsibility to engage and educate people about the work that we do,” the donor explained. “It’s not about me. It’s about them, the people we serve.” The organization made the announcement on its Facebook page Tuesday: “I feel a commitment to the Red Cross and a level of ownership toward our lifesaving mission. It’s not about me. It’s… Posted by American Red Cross of South Carolina on Tuesday, March 16, 2021 “We are thrilled to accept this gift and excited to save even more lives across the Lowcountry and beyond,” Executive Director of Lowcountry South Carolina, Ashley Henyan commented. “On behalf of the communities, families and individuals we serve, I can only say ‘thank you.'” During the month of March, the Red Cross honors those who make its mission possible, which is people across the country helping others in times of crisis, according to its website. “Our Red Cross Month celebration has been an annual tradition since 1943, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued the first Red Cross Month proclamation,” the site continued.
In 2020, the South Carolina branch and its volunteers responded to over 1,800 home fires and helped more than 5,100 individuals have a safe place to stay, meals, and emotional support.
The organization also worked with partners to collect over 77,000 units of blood during more than 3,300 blood drives and supported over 4,000 United States service members, veterans, and their loved ones.
Last week, Gov. Henry McMaster proclaimed March Red Cross month in South Carolina during an event at the State Capitol, the organization said in a press release.
“The past year, as we have all faced unprecedented challenges, the Red Cross was there to help those in need every time. Whether it was responding to home fires, collecting lifesaving blood, opening shelters after storms, or lending a hand to our military,” he stated.
“I’m honored to designate the month of March as Red Cross Month, and our state is grateful for its commitment to the people of South Carolina,” the governor concluded.Marcos Perez has paid it forward for thousands of lives by donating his platelets every two weeks for 37 years.
According to the South Texas Blood and Tissue Center, he has helped more than 3,000 people with his donations.
“Mr. Perez’s story is very moving and emotional because you know why he does it — it saved his life, ” said Roger Ruiz, corporate communications specialist for nonprofit BioBridge Global.
Perez was inspired to devote himself to this extraordinary act of kindness since he needed a blood transfusion to save his life when he was born prematurely.
“If someone was there for me, why can’t I be there for someone else?” Perez told Fox News.
His someone was his dad’s coworker, Tony Aguilar, back in the 1960s when people could not rely on blood banks for transfusions.
“My dad had to go around and ask his family members, my aunts and uncles, cousins, friends, to go donate blood, and only one man stepped up to the plate,” Perez said.
Since then, Perez has donated 962 times, and each time, his platelets help about three people.
Platelet donors have to wait a week in between each donation, but they can donate up to 24 times in a given year.
The South Texas Blood and Tissue Center plans to honor Perez on Thursday along with two others for meeting this 100-plus gallon milestone.“I always dreamed of being an engineer because throughout my life I liked the building,” she added.
Her passion was born when she began building with LEGOS as a four-year-old and told her mother, Daphne McQuarter, she would one day work for the agency.
“I’m kind of a nerd for the NASA-sized Legos,” said Wicker, who finished high school this year once she aced all of her homeschool classes.
She will attend ASU this summer and major in astronomical and planetary science and chemistry.
“Study the stars in this online astronomy and planetary science degree. You will explore planets, solar systems, and galaxies to understand where we came from and where we are going using the universe as your laboratory,” the university’s website reads.
The program “provides you with broad training in the scientific foundations and fundamentals of space exploration, including ongoing advances in the field,” it continued.
If everything goes as planned, Wicker will earn her diploma by the time she turns 16.
“I’ll be driving in one of those future space mobiles by the time that I graduate college,” said Wicker, who wants to build rovers such as the one sent to Mars in 2020.
The rover’s job is to “seek signs of ancient life and collect samples of rock and regolith (broken rock and soil) for possible return to Earth,” according to NASA.
However, Wicker said she is planning everything as she goes but encouraged others to set a goal and work towards it.A dog that spent 809 days at a Southern Illinois animal shelter waiting for a loving family to adopt her has finally found her forever home.
Demi stayed for more than two years at Helping Strays of Monroe County before a loving family adopted her from the Columbia, Illinois, shelter on March 7, the Belleville News-Democrat reported.
Helping Strays said in a Facebook post Demi is a “sweet girl” who found the perfect match with her adopted family.
“Today was a LONG time in the making,” the shelter said in its post. “They say good things come to those who wait and Demi now has a place to call her forever home!”
Demi is not the only dog to have found her forever home after spending years in a shelter. Days before Demi’s adoption, a senior dog named Baby Girl was adopted after spending seven years in a shelter.
And in January, a shepherd pitbull mix named Sarge got adopted after spending 628 days in a shelter.Community members in Wisconsin are helping a retired firefighter and his family get back on their feet after a fire engulfed their house Friday.
“At least two online fundraisers and two drop-off donation sites have been set up in Wisconsin Dells and Baraboo to help Chris and Stephanie Lawton recover after a fire destroyed their home at 911 Fawn Court,” Madison.com reported.
No injuries were reported at the time, but Joey Lawton, Chris’ brother, said the couple lost all of their belongings. He said the family moved into the home just two months prior to the incident.
“I hadn’t even been to their house yet,” he continued.Jenna Roman started a GoFundMe in February to search for a specific brand of waffles for her ten-year-old son with autism, who has been struggling with eating challenges since he was eight months old.
Roman explained to CBS News that her son, Jerico, regressed in 2020 after he was sickened with what she thought was the coronavirus. He did not eat for 12 days and “had regressed so much he had to relearn how to drink and eat,” Roman said.
“He was diagnosed with autism at two years old,” the single mom-of-three told Today Food. “He’s struggled with this eating challenge since eight months ago. We have worked with so many feeding therapists, but he regresses when he is sick and we have to start all over again.”
The only food he could stomach was waffles. But Jerico’s favorite waffles were not available due to production issues during the pandemic.
His mother had him try various brands of waffles until he was able to stomach the maple-cinnamon waffles from the Canada-based brand Nature’s Path.
But eventually, Nature’s Path discontinued the maple cinnamon waffles, which motivated Roman to create a GoFundMe page to obtain waffles for her son.
She created the page to ask others to donate any boxes they find in stores before the product is sold out forever.
Since she launched the GoFundMe page, several people have sent her boxes of Jerico’s favorite waffles. Roman got so many boxes she had to purchase two extra freezers to store them all.
Nature’s Path also adapted their waffle recipes so they could be made from home and delivered the recipe to Roman’s family.
Remember the story of Jerico and the @NaturesPath Maple Cinnamon waffles? Well, I am so happy to say our incredible R&D Team was able to adapt our recipe for home use – and we delivered the recipe and all the ingredients to Jerico & his mom Jenna today. Bon appetit!! pic.twitter.com/0l22DqrLQm — Samantha Falk (@samantha_falk) March 6, 2021
Samantha Falk, Nature’s Path’s communications director, told CBS News she personally delivered the recipe and the ingredients for it to Roman and Jerico.
As for Jerico, he has yet to taste the recipe, and his mom intends to keep it that way for as long as possible.
“Honestly he has no clue any of this is going on, because it would trigger more anxiety for him around eating,” she said, adding she does not intend to tell Jerico when she begins to serve the homemade waffles.A 91-year-old police officer in Arkansas, the oldest police officer in the state, is still patrolling the streets — and has no plans to quit his job anytime soon.
Although he drives around in an unmarked police car, everyone knows L.C. “Buckshot” Smith’s name in Camden, where he patrols the streets of his hometown four days a week.
“This badge and gun don’t make you a police officer. You got to respect people,” Smith told CBS News.
Smith earned respect by working for more than four decades as a deputy with the Ouachita County Sheriff’s Department. Everyone called him by his childhood nickname “Buckshot.”
WUSA 9 reported Smith had the name “Buckshot” since he was 14 years old.
He retired after working for 46 years as a deputy, but it only lasted for five months.
Smith said he did not have fun during that time because he does not “hunt or fish.”
So when he was in his 80s, he applied to become a rookie cop in Camden. KFVS reported he has been with the department for the past ten years.
He is armed with a gun, but he does not use it.
“He knows your mama, and he knew your grandmother. So he has the authority to speak into our lives,” Mayor Julian Lott said.
Smith told CBS News he has “taken more people home than [taken] them to jail.”
Even at 91 years old, Camden Police Chief Boyd Woody said Smith has no plans to retire.
“He does not want to retire. In his words, to me, he’ll retire when the good Lord tells him to,” said Woody.
Smith turns 92 years old in May.An elderly couple in Pennsylvania has been able to enjoy brunch together once again after they both received the coronavirus vaccine.
“I am gonna give her a big kiss,” said Bill Fuller, moments before he greeted his wife Lola, whom he has been married to for 72 years. “A hug is only half the deal.”
For nine years, the 93-year-old couple has lived at a long-term care facility on the outskirts of Philadelphia.
Bill resides in the independent living part of the facility, and his wife lives in the part of the facility with more specialized care.
Their daughter, Ann Teschner, said they are so close it is like they are joined at the hip.
The Fullers used to have weekly Sunday brunch at the nursing home weekly since moving there in 2012. But in March 2020, the coronavirus pandemic put a pause on activities at the center.
“I could tell by my father’s visible appearance, facial expressions, his tone of his voice, I could tell it was really hard, especially at the beginning,” Teschner said.
It has been one year since they had shared that special meal together. When they were finally able to share brunch again, they sat together, eating while enjoying each other’s company.
“They both looked younger to me on Sunday,” said Teschner. “They just looked on top of their game.”
At the end of their meal, they blew kisses at each other:
As of Wednesday morning, more than 117 million coronavirus cases have been diagnosed worldwide, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. More than 29 million of those cases originated in the U.S.
In Philadelphia County, more than 27,000 people have been partially vaccinated while more than 18,000 have been fully vaccinated, according to data from the Pennsylvania Department of Health obtained by WTAE.
According to the COVID Tracking Project, 52% of all Chinese coronavirus deaths in Pennsylvania occurred in long-term care facilities.
Pennsylvania’s former Health Secretary, Rachel Levine, is President Joe Biden’s Assistant Secretary of Health nominee and the first openly transgender health secretary in the United States. Levine came under fire last year for taking her elderly mother out of a Pennsylvania nursing home while directing COVID-positive patients back into nursing homes.The Susquehanna Police Department in Pennsylvania helped a homeless beagle find his forever home and a job with the police department.
Auggie, a 14-month-old stray beagle, was adopted by the department in September 2020 after he was found wandering Susquehanna, Penn Live reported.
Now, Auggie calls the police station his forever home where he keeps quite busy.
The beagle starts his day by greeting the police officers the moment they come to work. He also has designated officers assigned to care for him, making sure he is fed properly and walked several times a day.
He tags along with the other officers on briefings, sits in on shift changes, and goes on school visits with the school resource officer.
“Our school resource officer has been taking him to the schools several times a week to break down the barriers in relationships with us and the children,” says Robert Martin, director of public safety. “Auggie is that bridge, and it’s just been absolutely phenomenal.”
Auggie also enjoys certain privileges, such as his own Facebook page and free reign to walk untethered around the station.
Hi Friends!!! I’m ready for some company around here! Chief tells me they are trying to bring two K-9 Officers into… Posted by Auggie Susquehanna on Monday, February 22, 2021
Police say Auggie has provided emotional support for officers constantly exposed to traumatic events.
“Law enforcement is very stressful,” said Martin. “We all know what pets and our dogs can do for us at home in terms of stress relief.”
Angela Codero, one of Auggie’s handlers, says Auggie is always spreading his love to other officers.
“He’s always cheering us up because he’s running around being goofy, definitely is full of energy, and loves to play,” she said.
Auggie is not the only pooch to find a permanent home with law enforcement. In January 2021, a New Jersey police officer adopted an injured puppy he rescued in the job. In December 2020, an abandoned puppy in Miami, Florida, found his forever home with Officer Lauren Garcia after her colleagues told her about the dog.A disabled Coast Guard veteran can finally experience a taste of freedom outside of his home after two years after volunteers for a California-based nonprofit built him a wheelchair ramp.
Chuck Wood, 83, is a Coast Guard veteran who served during the Cold War between 1956 and 1960, but for the past two years, he has been homebound in his Sacramento residence because leaving his home meant going down a set of stairs.
“It’s great to go out, get some sun, go check my mail,” Wood told Fox News of how his life has changed since Veterans of All Wars Riders (VAW Riders) volunteers built the ramp outside his home. “It’s been kind of hard because I couldn’t get out of here for two years.”
VAW Riders President Richard Randall, 51, who had a father who served in Vietnam, said many organizations turned down Wood’s request for a ramp because the permitting process was complicated and there were other construction issues.
“He was not too excited when we showed up,” Randall said of Wood, adding that the 83-year-old veteran was skeptical of those who promised help and failed to deliver on their promises.
“I said, ‘Look, Chuck, we’re here. We’re not going nowhere. And if we say we’re going to build you a ramp, we’re going to build you a ramp,’” Randall continued.
Wood, who lost one of his legs because of a blood clot, does not belong to any veterans’ associations and expressed disdain at the government’s lack of support for disabled veterans.
VAW Riders, which was founded in 2018, helps veterans with grocery delivery, rides back and forth from doctor’s appointments, and wheelchair donations.
The group also gave Wood an electric wheelchair as an upgrade from his old wheelchair before the ramp project was completed on February 28. Home Depot donated the necessary materials for the project, which took about a year to complete.A senior dog named Baby Girl has finally found a forever home after spending over six years living at a shelter in Lufkin, Texas.
Although Monica and Mark Deaton already have three pups, they recently added another to their pack, KTRE reported Sunday.
“It was immediate, I could tell. She reminded me of my elderly dog that passed at 17 and a half… with her… just her personality and everything. I was like, ‘yes, she’s coming home,'” Monica told the outlet.
Baby Girl lived at the Winnie Berry Humane Society since 2014 before being adopted last week.
“Just looking into her eyes, I couldn’t understand why she had been there so long. Looking at her, you just kinda knew that she would fit with the family. She just had part of it,” Monica recalled.
The shelter shared a photo of the lucky pup with Mark and two employees in a Facebook post on Thursday.
“The staff and board of directors at the Humane Society of Angelina County are so excited to announce that after 2,326 days at the shelter, our longest resident (since 2014) Baby Girl, has been adopted!!!” the shelter wrote.
The dog has since adjusted to life in her adoptive home and on the first night, curled up next to Mark.
“She was a lover. She loved us all. She just wanted us to cuddle with her and hug her and love on her all the time. She was just a really great dog here, and we’re going to miss her a lot,” commented Elizabeth Burns, the shelter’s supervisor.
Despite her long stay, the staff members never gave up trying to find Baby Girl a loving home.
“She is doing really good. She’s not aggressive. She walks around and she mingles with them,” Monica said of her other dogs. “When she gets all happy, she prances with them and acts like a puppy. Then curls up, like she is old the next minute, and it’s cute.”
Last year, a New York pizza shop put pictures of shelter dogs on their boxes to promote adoption.The Coffee Caravan is the first coffee shop in the area to focus on giving jobs to individuals with special needs.
Located in Lebanon, Ohio, the shop opened Monday. “They’re just people,” co-owner and manager Mark Titmas told WLWT.
“Everybody has ability, it’s just a question of what it is. That’s why one of the things we have on our shirts is ‘What’s Your Ability,’ because everybody has talents and skills and they have talents and skills that they can display here,” he noted.
The business began in 2018 as part of the Residential Community Care that advocates for the empowerment, employment, and dignity of individuals with developmental disabilities.
At first, it was in a trailer located in the shop’s parking lot but now offers a chance for its employees to build relationships and hone their social skills with other staff members and customers.
“Our employees are capable, giving, and successful adults in our community,” its website reads.
The business shared a photo of several visitors on February 19, writing, “THIS is our purpose! Look who came to see the new coffee shop today!”:
THIS is our purpose! Look who came to see the new coffee shop today! #coffeewithapurpose #haveacup #changetheworld #openingsoon #coffeecaravan #rcc Posted by The Coffee Caravan on Friday, February 19, 2021
On February 26, the shop posted a picture of its employees and another of a worker being interviewed by WLWT:
WLWT , Channel 5 came to the Coffee Caravan today! Grand Opening soon! #wlwt #airingsoon #grandopeningsoon #coffeewithapurpose☕️📺 Posted by The Coffee Caravan on Friday, February 26, 2021
Social media users expressed their excitement about the shop’s grand opening and praised the workers for mastering their coffee-making skills.
“I am so proud of this group here! They have worked so hard to get the Coffee Caravan open for business!! A Big Shout Out to everyone there in Lebanon, Ohio for a Great job well done!” one person commented.
“Congratulation[s]! Cannot wait until you open!!” another user wrote.
Right now, the Coffee Caravan has eight employees but said there is room for growth.
To qualify as a candidate, applicants must be 18-years-old and have earned their GED certificate, but they are not required to live in Warren County.
Last year, then-President Donald Trump highlighted Michael Heup, a special needs employee at Bitty & Beau’s Coffee Shop, to promote the Paycheck Protection Program.A 17-year-old from Florida found his forever home with a 60-year-old couple in Connecticut after a recent Zoom adoption ceremony made the family ties official.
“They’re amazing parents, so making it official would just be better,” James David Irish, 17, told WTNH.
After spending years in foster care, Irish has finally found his adopted home as Theresa McSpedon, and her husband, Scott, become first-time parents at the age of 60.
“When I first saw him, I just instantly fell in love with him,” said Theresa. “How could you not fall in love with those gorgeous little curly locks and that face.”
The couple met Irish through Theresa’s father, who was Irish’s advocate. If a child cannot be placed with a blood relative, a known mentor can help facilitate the adoption process.
The couple is looking forward to college visits and boat trips with their son.
At the end of the adoption ceremony, Theresa turned to Irish and said, “We are you, and you are now us. We love you.”
Couples are increasingly turning to Zoom for their adoption ceremonies as courtrooms remain closed due to the pandemic.
In April 2020, one Arkansas adopted a two-year-old boy over Zoom, and a five-year-old girl was adopted in a virtual ceremony in Pennsylvania because the coronavirus canceled all court hearings.A Nebraska veteran is raising money for other veterans in need by running four miles around his hometown every four hours.
Shelby Orr, of North Platte, and his wife, Jen, served in the Air Force and are now looking for ways to give back to that community. So Shelby Orr began running Friday as a way to raise awareness for a group called “Vets Helping Heroes.”
As of Sunday afternoon, he has raised $1,550 on his GoFundMe page for the organization.
“We decided to help Vets Helping Heroes,” Orr told KNOP. “It’s a nonprofit that helps service members and vets get service working dogs. Completely free of charge to the vet. It usually costs $40,000-$60,000 to train a service dog. So every dime helps.”
The nonprofit was founded by a World War II veteran in 2008 and has raised more than $8 million to this day.
When Orr goes on his four-mile runs, he always carries an American flag with him. Orr said he felt inspired to help out the organization, given how much money it costs to train a service dog.A California boy is being hailed as a hero after he summoned his nurse mother who saved his sister from drowning in the family pool.
Eight-year-old Tino Conboy was playing with his 18-month-old sister Cami when he noticed things were too quiet. Once he looked up, he realized Cami had wandered outside.
“I looked at the pool, and then I saw Cami in there,” Tino said.
Once Tino realized his sister was unresponsive, Tino yelled for his mother, Diana Conboy, who is a nurse. She rushed to the pool, pulled Cami out, and began performing CPR while Tino dialed 911.
Conboy said she was able to get to Cami in time, thanks to Tino’s scream.
“Basically, Cami gave her power to me, and then I had the power to scream. And then Mom came over and jumped in and got Cami out,” Tino said.
Conboy said she was impressed at how calm and composed her son was throughout the incident.
“He was so calm and collected,” Conboy said. “You know, he called 911, gave them our address, told them to get here immediately.”
Tino is not the only boy who has been in the news for saving a younger sibling’s life.
A seven-year-old boy rescued his baby sister from a house fire in Tennessee in December, and a six-year-old boy from Wyoming was hailed as a hero for saving his younger sister from a dog attack in July.“After medical help responded, the officers found out the man and his wife were traveling on the interstate when he started having chest pains and passed out,” the post read, adding he was talking when flown from the scene.
Officer McWhorter, a former Army medic, used those skills again the next day when a man driving himself to the hospital flagged him down and said he was experiencing a heart attack.
“McWhorter has a lot of experience and utilizes those medic skills,” Captain Anthony Pressnell explained. “He did not have to perform CPR this time, but he did call an ambulance, check the man’s pulse and monitor his condition until the ambulance arrived.”
The man’s wife later sent a note to the mayor’s office to thank McWhorter, even though she did not know his name at the time.
“The officer’s quick thinking getting him help saved his life,” the woman wrote. “My husband went straight into surgery when he reached Huntsville Hospital. Thank you so very much.”
Once she learned his name and about the incident the day before, the wife stated, “We are so grateful. Sounds like there is more than one hero in Athens.”
Pressnell said he was happy she reached out to give them an update.
“We don’t always know the outcome once a person goes on to the hospital. It’s nice to hear a good outcome,” he commented.
Facebook users praised the two policemen and thanked them for their service.
“Great Americans! God Bless!” one person commented.
“I’m very proud of these officers and glad they represent our city,” another wrote.The city of Warwick, Rhode Island, rallied behind the owner of Don’s Pizza after a battle with stage 4 cancer forced him to close.
Donald Ryan is a staple of the Warwick community. His business, “Don’s Pizza,” served Warwick residents for 39 years before his mortal battle against cancer finally forced him to close its doors. Ryan has been fighting stage 4 prostate cancer for two years. He recently learned the cancer had spread.
Longtime customer Joanne Miller said the loss was more than just good pizza. “He wasn’t just serving pizza. He served love and friendship, sponsored so many teams,” she told local channel WPRI. “He is just there for the community as much as they are here for him now, he was there for them.”
Miller was inspired to repay that kindness. “It was just a divine appointment maybe. My mom wanted a pizza that night and Don’s is right around the corner and I know he’s got great pizza,” she recalled. “His phone was out and when I met him he told me about his cancer. I told him I would be praying.”
But Miller knew Ryan needed more. As the restaurant went belly up and hospital bills piled higher, she decided to turn her compassion into action. She posted to a Warwick community Facebook page, asking for others to join her. Over 2,000 people responded with cards, wishes, and prayers. But one community member believed they could offer more than sentiment.
“A teacher who’s first-grader [always] asked her for Don’s Pizza — even Googled it for her in her phone — called me,” Miller said. “Her name was Alicia Rathbun, and Ben is the student, and she called me and asked if she could set up a GoFundMe. She is the one who did that, and that is how we have raised over $10,000 now.”
Rathbun’s GoFundMe has already rocketed past that $10,000 goal, but donations are still coming. The encouragement — and the vital funding — arrived just in time.
“It was a really tough week for him last week because it was the first week of chemo and what Joanne did was she came in at the perfect time,” Ryan’s wife Mary said. “He was so depressed, just so upset about the restaurant and that he couldn’t serve his community.”
She and her husband were overwhelmed by the unexpected compassion. “I just couldn’t believe the outpouring of support from friends of mine and the community of Warwick. People I don’t even know,” she said. Don expressed his gratitude as well. “Joanne, thank you very much. You’ve come just at the right time in my life with the first week of my chemo,” he told Miller. “All these memories on the internet, so nice. All the love and support, thank you.”
Don and Mary Ryan said the money raised will help to pay off remaining debts from the business as they work through the process of selling it. Whatever remains will go toward the mountain of medical bills. Regardless of the total, Warwick has managed to raise another resource for the Ryan family: hope.Dauphin, Pennsylvania, community members surprised the town’s one UPS driver with a celebration, and a gift, on Tuesday.
Fewer than 800 people call Dauphin their home. Sitting on the bank of the Susquehanna River, the hamlet cannot even claim a single traffic light. But, like many small communities, Dauphin residents are especially close-knit. After a year of 60-80 hour weeks struggling to provide vital supplies to his town, UPS deliver man Chad Turns discovered just how much he means to his neighbors.
“Everyone knows how special Chad is,” resident Jenny Shickley told NBC’s TODAY. “If he thinks something might be a gift – and this happened to us – he literally didn’t deliver it when the kids were in the yard, he just drove by, and then he drove all the way back to our house after dark, because he was nervous it was a gift and didn’t want to ruin it for the kids.”
But this account of Turns’ persistent goodwill is just one of many. “On Facebook, another friend mentioned there was a package that needed signing and they weren’t home,” Shickley continued. “Chad was nervous that it was important, so he went to their parents’ house to get it signed for them.”
Townspeople frequently leave water, cookies, or other bits of encouragement for Turns as he travels to each home, but it was Shickley who decided to take the town’s gratitude to Facebook. She sought out other Dauphin residents to help raise funds for a proper show of the town’s gratitude. Dauphin answered the call, and more. “The funny thing is I meant to set it up for $300, but it set to $500,” she said. “It hit $500 within two days and the total wound up being a little over $1000.”
Local UPS shift supervisor Adam Kerr helped Shickley with the surprise, ensuring Turns’ last delivery was an “on-demand pickup” at the town’s municipal building. “Chad thought he was going to pick up a box, [but] it was the community and kids and big signs,” Shickley explained.
Turns’ was overwhelmed when he made that final stop. “I cried,” he said, and remembered his wife showing a similar response when he told her what happened. “I always call her when I leave work and she asks me how my day was. It was a tearjerker. It was very touching and humbling.”
“Blink and you’ll miss it,” Joe Calhoun, a longtime resident, said of Dauphin. “But there is something so special here. It’s a small town with a big heart.”The Ferguson, Missouri, chief of police is planning a special birthday bash for a little girl battling cancer who turns six this Saturday.
Chief Jason Armstrong is throwing a parade for Paydenn who has stage four neuroblastoma, KSDK reported.
Paydenn was diagnosed in July with a childhood cancer that “develops from immature nerve cells found in several areas of the body,” according to the Mayo Clinic’s website.
Armstrong met the little girl and her mom, Samantha Mason, when he was off duty and directing traffic after a car crash.
Mason asked if he would coordinate a parade for Paydenn because she knew the department had thrown them for children prior to the coronavirus pandemic.A dog found on the verge of death in January has recovered and is getting ready to be adopted into a caring family in Louisville, Kentucky.
When the dog, named Ethan, was found in the Kentucky Humane Society’s (KHS) parking lot, many people wanted to give him the home he deserved, WLKY reported Thursday.
In a Facebook post on January 29, the shelter posted photos of Ethan after he was abandoned outside its facility.
“Someone dropping off wish list donations saw the dog and alerted staff, who rushed him to our Veterinary Services department. We immediately began working to try to save his life, warming him with heated blankets and warm IV fluids,” the post read:
DYING DOG DUMPED AT KHS: Today around 12 pm, a dying dog was left in the KHS parking lot. Someone dropping off wish list… Posted by Kentucky Humane Society on Friday, January 29, 2021
Ethan was so weak he could not even lift his head and the shelter said he was the thinnest dog its staff members had ever seen that continued to breathe.
“However he got to this condition, we are doing everything we can to save his life,” the post continued.
During his recovery, the dog has been living with KHS staffer Jeff Callaway and his family, but the shelter announced Thursday his temporary home will become permanent on March 10:
ETHAN UPDATE: Hundreds of you have asked and we are happy to announce that Jeff and his family will be adopting Ethan… Posted by Kentucky Humane Society on Thursday, March 4, 2021
“We are so, so excited to be able to adopt Ethan! He is already such a huge part of our family. From the very beginning, it’s always been about Ethan and what is best for him and his future. I believe with all my heart he is in the right place,” the Callaway family said.
“There’s nothing we wouldn’t do for him. We love him so very much and are very grateful for all the love of every single person that has followed his story from the beginning. Thank you again!” the family continued.
KHS also revealed this week Ethan is a mixed breed of Presa Canario, Mastiff, Argentine Dogo, Bull Dog, Cane Corso, and American Staffordshire Terrier.
“This big-hearted, goofy puppy has won the love of so many, who have been inspired by his miraculous recovery and his fun-loving personality!” the shelter said.Two Massachusetts police officers rescued an 89-year-old woman from a burning building and are now being praised for their courageous actions.
Police say they were dispatched to a structure fire in Worcester around 1:20 a.m. Saturday, WCVB reported.
Once they arrived at the scene, responding officers witnessed the home as it was burning, fully engulfed in flames.
They also heard the commotion of people screaming for help in the rear hallway of the residence.
Police said two men were struggling to help the 89-year-old woman down from the second floor as smoke filled the halls.
Officers Timothy Foley and Daniel Pennellatore entered the building, found the woman in the stairway, and lifted her to safety.
“I grabbed her upper torso, (Foley) grabbed the legs, and we just carried her right out right alongside the house, actually, to the street,” Pennellatore said.
Paramedics treated the woman at the scene, and she did not suffer any serious injuries.
“I am grateful for the actions of two of our courageous police officers who rushed into a burning building to save a woman’s life,” Worcester City Manager Edward Augustus said in a statement.
“This incident is a reminder to all of our citizens of the dangers of policing and another example of how our city is safer because of their bravery and commitment to their duty,” the statement continued.
Police say the Worcester Fire Department took over to fight the blaze. No serious injuries were reported.
It is unclear how many people had been displaced by the fire.
These police officers are not the only ones who had gone above and beyond the call of duty to save someone’s life.
In January, an off-duty firefighter and a seven-year-old partnered to save two people from a house fire, and in February 2020, an off-duty firefighter saved a 72-year-old man from a Maryland house fire.An accidental home fire left a Texas family with nearly nothing salvaged from inside their home but could bounce back thanks to the surrounding community.
“It’s crazy how it can happen in a blink of an eye, and everything you own is gone,” Derek Sykes, who lost his home in a fire, told TNN.
Although the fire department has yet to determine the cause, Sykes and Michsella Ory believe the fire began in the fire pit.
The Burkburnett Fire Department says five different agencies responded to the fire to get it under control.
The family could make it out of the house safely along with their pets, and they are currently staying with family until they get back on their feet.
Within minutes, word spread about the fire to neighbors, who quickly began donating.
“The community has already reached out to the occupants to help them with some things as far as clothing and some other things,” said Harold Watkins, Fire Chief at Burkburnett Fire Department.
The schools the family’s children attend are also collecting donations. For those interested in donating, the contact is Jessica Dobbs, and her email is jessica.dobbs@burkburnettisd.org.
This Texas community is not the only one in the U.S. that has rallied around a family who had lost everything to a fire.
In January, a Culpeper, Virginia, community donated thousands of dollars to a GoFundMe page to help a family who escaped from a house fire with nothing but the clothes on their backs.
Not too far away in Bristow, Virginia, the community helped a family recover from a fire that totally destroyed their home in December 2020 by donating clothing and food items while also raising money through a GoFundMe account.A retired Marine in New Bern, North Carolina, is planning to use her recent lottery winnings to help people living in the area.
Christi Davis said she wants to share some of her $500,000 prize money with her neighbors, the News & Observer reported Monday.
“It’s been a hard year for everyone,” she said. “We want to pay it forward to some people and some organizations around town.”
Many North Carolinians have experienced financial strain since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, so Davis was overwhelmed when she won the recent Powerball game.
“Her good luck started last Saturday night about 8 p.m. when she realized she did not have a ticket for that night’s Powerball drawing. She took out her smartphone and used her NC Lottery Official Mobile App to get a $3 Power Play ticket,” the NC Education Lottery said Saturday.
Davis’s Quick Pick ticket matched four white balls and the Powerball and won her $50,000. However, because she also bought a Power Play ticket, the prize increased to $500,000 when the ten times multiplier was drawn.
“I feel like I am in a dream,” said the retired Marine, who served the nation for 22 years. “I think I am still trying to accept it.”
She ultimately took home $353,751 after state and federal tax withholdings, saying she hoped to take her whole family on vacation.
“Her ticket was one of three bought in North Carolina that matched four white balls and the Powerball in last Saturday’s drawing. The odds of that are 1 in 913,129,” the lottery’s website read.
In November, elderly Florida man Albert Pike was struggling to take care of his family and got a huge surprise when he won $1 million on a scratch-off ticket, Breitbart News reported.
Albert Pike ended up taking a one-time lump sum payout of $790,000.
“When I got home and saw the winning numbers, I couldn’t believe it. I knew right then that I wouldn’t have to worry about how to pay for the things we need,” he stated.
Yesterday, Ernesto Sorzano also won $500,o0o from the North Carolina Powerball by using his fortune cookie numbers on the ticket.“After that moment, we were so tight,” Tinetti recalled. “We started hanging out. We would go out for drinks, for dinner. We started dressing alike.”
“I thought she was cool,” Madison said, adding, “We just kind of hit it off right away, It was very natural.”
Even though they looked so much alike, the women did not believe they were related and even compared adoption papers with information that did not match up.
“Papers said we were from two different cities [with] different last names. And, our mothers’ names on our paperwork were different,” Tinetti explained.
However, everything changed in 2018 when Madison’s adoptive mother gifted her a 23andMe DNA test kit. The results led Madison to her biological dad in the Dominican Republic.
It also helped match her with several distant relatives. In addition, she learned her biological mother passed away in 2015 and they gave up another daughter for adoption.
Once Madison convinced Tinetti to take a DNA test, the results showed they shared the same biological parents.
She posted a photo of herself and her sister on Facebook on January 28:
Julia and I met in 2013 working at Russian Lady in New Haven, CT. Julia notices the Dominican flag on my arm and makes a… Posted by Cassandra Raquel Madison on Thursday, January 28, 2021
“WE ARE SISTERS ! Same mom, same dad ! Just two girls who happen to work together find out they’re sisters. I love you twin !” Madison wrote.
Facebook users expressed their joy at the news and one said, “Take this story to the big screen.”A principal in Indianapolis, Indiana, went above and beyond recently for a student who felt uneasy about how he looked.
Students at Stonybrook Intermediate and Middle School are not allowed to wear hats in the classroom, so when an eighth grader was sent to principal Jason Smith’s office because he would not remove his hat, Smith wanted to know why, the Indianapolis Star reported.
“He just let me know his parents got him a haircut recently, but he didn’t like how it came out. I’m assuming he just didn’t want kids to laugh at him,” Smith recalled.
Instead of sending the boy home, the principal took out his phone and showed him photos of his son, whose hair he cuts on a regular basis, to prove he knew how to use a pair of clippers.
Smith has cut hair for many years and used to give teammates cuts prior to their high school and college basketball games.
He offered to touch up the student’s hairline and once the boy and his parents agreed, Smith drove home and got his clippers.
School resource officer Lewis Speaks Sr. shared the now-viral photo of the principal and eighth grader (pictured left) to his Facebook page on February 18:
This morning a student refused to take off his hat and go to class so he was sent to the principals office. Instead of… Posted by Lewis Speaks Sr. on Thursday, February 18, 2021
“I came back and lined him up, and he went on to class,” Smith noted, adding that cutting hair “ended up being a useful skill.”
Although the incident was “a touching moment,” it was not the first time the principal helped a student, Speaks explained.
He said a few weeks ago, a fifth grader came into the principal’s office complaining about his shoes because the soles were tearing off.
According to Speaks, Smith gave the student another pair.
“He doesn’t really like the publicity,” the school resource officer commented. “But it’s definitely not out of the normal for him to do such a gesture.”A seven-year-old girl from Alabama selling lemonade has raised more than $250,000 through her stand to pay for her much-needed brain surgeries.
Liza Scott’s family learned this month that she has three rare brain malformations, which have caused her to have multiple Grand Mal seizures.
She will need surgery to prevent further seizures, hemorrhage, brain bleeding, or stroke.
As of Monday morning, Liza’s page on Mightycause has raised more than $252,000. Her family has also received $10,000 in cash donations.
Some have offered them flights and housing for their upcoming trip to Boston for treatment.
“You have no idea how loved we feel,” Elizabeth Scott, Liza’s mother, said. “It’s been overwhelming but amazing.”
“It’s kind of allowed me to step away from some of the emotions. But at the same time, it’s emotional in a different way because I never expected any of this … America is really … really great …,” she continued.
Liza’s lemonade stand has established itself at Savage’s Bakery, which her grandfather and mother co-own.
Liza and her family will fly to Boston Children’s Hospital on Thursday for the first of her three surgeries. Liza’s mother says her daughter plans to continue selling lemonade after she recovers.
They plan to use the money she makes from the lemonade stand to help others in similar situations.CRCI Landscaping & Pressure Washing also shared pictures of cleanup efforts in Ocean Ridge, writing, “We are grateful we are in a position where we are able to help our neighbors”:
Our landscaping crew has been spending almost every day in the Ocean Ridge Community but there’s still a lot left to do! We are grateful we are in a position where we are able to help our neighbors. Posted by CRCI Landscaping & Pressure Washing on Saturday, February 27, 2021
In a post on Friday, CRCI’s Catering & Creations said, “Here at BCRC we praise our men and help them find their way to God and His purpose for their lives”:
"I was hungry, and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger,… Posted by CRCI Catering & Creations on Friday, February 26, 2021
“We also allow the opportunity for our men to be a blessing to others as well! Although it is good to receive, we find that the real joy is in giving back,” the post read.
One resident did not imagine there would be so much support from neighbors after the tornado.“His Fortune cookie numbers matched four of the white balls and the Powerball in Saturday’s drawing, winning him $50,000,” the NC Education Lottery’s website read.
Because Sorzano bought a $3 Power Play ticket, the prize increased ten times to $500,000 when the ten times multiplier was drawn.
“That was a good investment,” he said.
The Estero, Florida, resident claimed his prize at the lottery’s headquarters in Raleigh on Monday and ended up taking home $353,751 after federal and state tax withholdings.
Sorzano is moving to Huntersville and plans to buy a house with the money.
“Unbelievable. I’m just super happy that my dreams came true,” said Sorzano, who bought the ticket at the 7-Eleven store on Sam Furr Road in Huntersville.
In January, a nurse in Durham, North Carolina, won $1 million in the state’s Education Lottery, Breitbart News reported.
Terri Watkins said she thought someone was playing a trick on her when she got the call about her winnings.
“I thought that it was not real, couldn’t be real. It’s still something that I really don’t believe, I’m still in some shock here,” she explained.
The nurse works in a COVID unit at a long-term care facility where she has witnessed some hard things. However, Watkins is grateful for the money.
“I had been praying for something to help me with this situation. It really is a great thing. I’m very blessed,” she commented, adding that she will take some time to decide what to do with the winnings.An anonymous man who identified himself as the “COVID Bandit” gave each employee at a Denver, Colorado, steakhouse $200.
The man, who dined at the restaurant Guard and Grace on Saturday, gave out a total of $6,800 in tips.
“Who the heck is this COVID BANDIT??!!” owner Troy Guard wrote on Facebook of his restaurant at 1801 California Street.
“Whoever this person is …, thank you so much for your act of kindness and your sincere genuine caring thoughtfulness you just bestowed on our Guard and Grace staff,” Guard added.
Based on the message and the smiley face, it appears the “COVID Bandit” could be the same person who left another large tip at the Notchtop Bakery & Cafe, also in Denver, last month.
He wrote a message, “COVID Sucks!” along with the tip.
Colorado has seen its fair share of generous tippers, some just within the past week alone.
On Friday, an anonymous tipper who wanted to celebrate a big merger for his company left a $5,000 tip at a Colorado tavern. He also paid for everyone’s bar tab, which added up to nearly $7,000.A regular customer at a tavern in Broomfield, Colorado, was feeling generous Friday night and wanted to celebrate a merger at work, so he paid for everyone’s tab and left a $5,000 tip.
“He decided that he wanted to take care of everyone’s tab around the bar,” North Side Tavern owner Steve Bauer told KDVR.
“And so I walked up to him, and I said, ‘Are you sure?’ and he said, ‘Well, tell you what, let’s take care of everyone’s tab in the whole restaurant,” he added.
North Side Tavern stayed closed during December and January after Bauer realized they were losing money by staying open.
“I was worried the community was going to forget about us,” says Bauer.
But over the past two weeks, he says sales have gone better than expected, with customers making it a habit to leave generous tips.
Bauer says the man, who wished to remain anonymous, paid for a nearly $7,000 tab.
“He signed it, and one of the bartenders came up to me and said he just tipped the whole restaurant over $5,000,” Bauer said. “And he wants it shared between the dishwashers and the busboys, and the hosts, and the bartenders, and everyone. It was mind blowing to everyone.”
Word about the giant tip spread quickly throughout the kitchen to servers like Andrea Valdez, who said the extra money would go towards paying for her son’s asthma medication.
Bauer and his restaurant are not the first to receive such a generous tip this month. A Boston, Massachusetts, billionaire left a $5,000 tip at a Salisbury, Massachusetts, restaurant at the beginning of this month, CBS Boston reported.A 94-year-old New York couple is looking towards a bright and happy wedded future once they receive their coronavirus vaccines.
While the coronavirus kept most people apart, Joy Morrow-Nulton and John Shults became inseparable, their relationship blossoming during the pandemic.
“I’m looking forward to getting married to my wonderful woman,” Shults told Spectrum News. “She’s wonderful, cute, smart.”
Now that each of them received their vaccinations, they are looking forward to planning their wedding.
New York State Sen. Michelle Hinchey (D-Saugerties) gave them a certificate to honor their journey.
Their families are excited, too.
“We were just saying like reminiscing on that,” said Emily Loughran, Shults’s granddaughter. “It was emotional because we’ve been so careful around them and just how important it is to get the vaccine, and you know what it means to everyone surrounding them as well.”
The soon-to-be-married couple is also looking forward to entering life with a little less weight on their shoulders.
“Being able to not be so fearful everywhere we go, although we will be careful,” Morrow-Nulton said.
The New York State Department of Health reported that 13.9 percent of New York state’s population received at least one dose of the vaccine.Two neighbors with health concerns who recently met online helped each other get the coronavirus vaccine, as one volunteered to give her appointment to her elderly neighbor.
Emily Johnson is a grandmother in Austin, Texas, who was in need of open heart surgery, but her doctor told her she should have one vaccination before the procedure, ABC News reported Wednesday.
Johnson spent hours on the phone trying to set up an appointment but eventually reached out to neighbors on the Nextdoor app for help.A Morristown, New Jersey, plumber, and his apprentice made the 25-hour journey to Texas to help those in need of repairs after the winter storm.
Andrew Mitchell is the plumber and his brother-in-law, Isiah Pinnock, is his apprentice.
The duo has family in Houston, but their road trip that spanned six states had a bigger purpose than just going down to help the in-laws, KTRK reported.
Mitchell and his wife, Kisha, purchased $2,000 in plumbing supplies before they left home.
“Some people’s home have lost power, heat; some people have been without water for days — almost over a week,” Kisha said.
Since the family’s arrival in Texas on Sunday, Mitchell and Pinnock have been going house-to-house in Texas, making much-needed plumbing repairs.
“People can’t get water, so we drove down here on Saturday, got here on Sunday, we went straight to work,” Kisha said. “Andrew and Isiah — Isiah has been a huge helper, Andrew has been teaching him a lot, they have been getting busy and getting to work, and we are really excited and thankful that we could be a blessing to other people.”
The family is already making a difference. There is no timeline on when the family is headed back, but they say there is still a lot of work to be done to get families’ houses up-and-running.
Mitchell is not the only Good Samaritan looking to help Texans in their time of need.
An Arizona man traveled to Texas to repair water-damaged homes wrecked by the storm, and at least three Good Samaritans based out of Houston either offered to donate money or fix broken water pipes free-of-charge.A tiny mixed breed dog named Ash was loyal to his owner in freezing temperatures, saving his life as he tried to navigate the slopes of the Italian Alps.
The hero dog stayed with the unidentified 33-year-old from Trieste, Italy, for seven days and nights in below-freezing temperatures after the climber fell and broke his ankle, People reported.
“The man was wounded and badly bruised but conscious and had the little dog, Ash, next to him,” reads a Facebook release by the Corpo Nazionale Soccorso Alpino e Speleologico (CNSAS) mountain rescue team about the incident.
“He claimed that he had slipped several meters into a canal and dragged himself, albeit with a broken ankle and other traumas, as close to the creek water as possible and that he managed to survive thanks to the company of the doggy,” the post adds.
Ash was enjoying an annual winter hike with his owner when the accident happened 2,300 feet up in the remote Alpine foothills.
The climber was unable to use his cellphone to call for help due to the lack of cell signal in the area. Both the climber and the dog had planned to spend their nights in bivouacs and mountain huts.
The climber’s fiancée reported them missing last Monday when they did not return according to schedule.
A helicopter rescue team spotted the pair from the air when a search volunteer saw a thermal blanket. Rescue crews later discovered the climber covered in leaves Thursday morning.
The climber was “thirsty and hungry” when rescuers found him and was loaded onto the rescue helicopter along with his four-legged friend.A restaurant owner in Stevens Point, Wisconsin, is helping his fellow business owners get back on their feet.
Adolfo Melendez opened his eatery just before the coronavirus pandemic hit but he is now using a large portion of his advertising funds to buy gift cards and help other local restaurants, WSAW reported February 16.
“If you help one person and another person helps another, that will help a lot,” Melendez told the outlet. “Most of us are just single family owners and there’s no where you can go to ask for help but ourselves.”
He recently spent over $2,000 in gift cards to seven nearby restaurants, each worth $20, and has been raffling them off on his Facebook page.
“The whole idea is just to give other opportunities,” he said. “I think it’s important to support a small business, that’s what makes this little town so strong, you know? Because big companies come and go.”
In a Facebook post on February 1, a customer praised the El Mezcal restaurant owner for his kind gesture.
“Adolfo has been buying gift cards to other restaurants and giving them away to help support our local businesses. Today I support him by having a wonderful dinner!” the customer wrote.
Olympia Family Restaurant owner Pete Ananiadis called Melendez’s idea smart and said he was grateful for what he did for the community.
“In these COVID times, it’s very important to eat local, small mom and pop shops and he understands that and for all of us right now, it’s a tough time,” he noted.
Melendez later echoed his comments and said small businesses are an essential part of a community’s fabric.
“That’s part of what keeps us alive,” he stated, adding, “You can go to Applebee’s, or you can go to Pizza Hut but it ain’t the same like when you go to this little diner or pizza joint.”A Plano, Texas, restaurant offered 500 community members a hot meal during the power outages caused by Winter Storm Uri.
Bella Italia Ristorante was among the millions of people and businesses struck by Winter Storm Uri’s ravages. Deadly cold coupled with rolling widespread power outages have already claimed at least two dozen lives.
Texans, however, are a stubborn sort. Almost immediately, many among those who suffered began reaching out to others in need. Last week, Bella Italia Ristorante joined efforts to warm and feed the community around them.
Dear amazing Bella customers. As we, like almost everybody else, had no power today, and we couldn’t open to fully… Posted by Bella Italia Ristorante on Tuesday, February 16, 2021
“Dear amazing Bella customers,” the restaurant wrote in a Facebook post on February 16. “As we, like almost everybody else, had no power today, and we couldn’t open to fully operate and serve you,” they continued. “However, we couldn’t sit back and do nothing when our community is hurting.”
To that end, the restaurant used gas powered ovens to prepare lasagna and spaghetti for anyone who could make it. The next day, they did the same. The message ended with an encouragement to “be safe, stay warm,” and a thank you for the customers that supported it.
Bella Italia Ristorante was not the only restaurant to turn its business into charitable work. On February 18, the owner of Iowa’s “Willie Ray’s Q Shack” and some of his employees made a special trip to Texas to join in relief efforts.A Texas couple married for more than 60 years defeated the coronavirus together — all while sharing the same hospital bedroom.
Andres Carrillo, 84, and Eva Carrillo, 83, were inseparable until they both came down with the coronavirus.
The couple’s daughter, Eliza Calpena, said Andres was admitted to the hospital shortly after testing positive for the coronavirus.
“What made me want to share this story is that there was a point where we didn’t think our dad was going to make it,” Calpena told KHOU. “When my mom was at home, all she was doing was crying, wanting to be with my dad.”
Soon after, Eva was admitted to the same hospital, although at first, the couple could not have felt further apart.
Calpena said the hospital was kind enough to reunite the couple and place them in the same room so they could recover together.
“My mom came in, and they told me my dad was just so happy to see my mom,” Calpena said.
The couple is now on the road to recovery at a local rehabilitation facility.
This San Antonio, Texas, couple is not the only one to be joined together by the coronavirus. In August 2020, a San Antonio, Texas, couple got married while the groom was fighting off the coronavirus.
A couple in Northern India also got married while wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) in December 2020 after the bride tested positive for the coronavirus.An Ohio teen received a certificate Sunday to honor her for saving her young neighbors’ lives from icy waters.
Brookelynn Pruitt, 13, entered a frozen pond to save her neighbors who fell into the pond, WLWT reported.
Pruitt was braiding her horse’s mane when the horse began to get anxious.
That is when Pruitt noticed her two young neighbors, Hope and Nevadah, out on the pond.
“I seen them running around the pond slipping, sliding, just playing,” Pruitt said. “So, I thought it’s probably a good idea to check on them. I had a bad feeling something was going to happen.”
As Pruitt made her way towards the pond, she recalled that she heard the ice begin to break.
She witnessed Hope fall in, then Nevadah.
Pruitt said that with a combination of common sense and using what she learned from watching National Geographic, she was able to make the rescue.
“I broke a path through instead of walking out and getting caught in a hole. I knew I had to break a path through to them, so I had a clear way to swim them back,” Pruitt told WLWT.
“When I got to them, they were freaking out a bit still. So, I told the oldest one to grab on to me, and I’d hold on to her, and the oldest one grabbed on to the little one. So, it was like a little chain,” she continued.
The rescue was successful.
She walked the girls to their grandparents’ house and then ran to her house, WXIX reported.
Both neighbors escaped the situation without injury. Pruitt suffered minor injuries, which her mom, an emergency room nurse, took care of when she got home.
Russell Beckner, who teaches farm safety programs with his wife, watched Pruitt’s story on the local news and wanted to recognize her for her efforts.
So Beckner honored her with a certificate for her lifesaving efforts Sunday, with her two neighbors standing by on each side of her as she received her award.An Arizona man inspired to do good went to Texas, which has been storm-ravaged in recent days, to repair water-damaged homes.
Jordan Orta, who owns Tru Grit Restoration, says he called a Texas property management company to see if they needed any help after the treacherous winter storm.
When the company said yes, Orta began his 16-hour drive to Dallas, Texas, without hesitation, KSAZ reported.
Orta said he could not stand by and do nothing after he heard about the storm’s impact on Texas and how people were being displaced from their homes.
He is currently working on a flooded condo as a remnant of the storm that left hundreds of thousands without power and with severe water damage to their homes.
“Really damaged from all the water, so just this one. But I’m sure, I’m sure there’s others around here that have the same problem. I just don’t know about it,” Orta said about his current project.
He plans to stay in Texas for as long as he has the equipment that it takes to get the job done. But he says he does not have much to work with.
“I was trying to buy, you know, a lot of equipment, and I can’t. I can’t find any … if I don’t have the equipment to dry out somebody’s house, there’s not too much you can do,” Orta said.
Orta says he is calling other Texas companies for help, and he is not expecting a paycheck for his work for at least three months.
Orta is not the only Good Samaritan who came in to help Texans in distress. At least three Good Samaritans based out of Houston either offered to donate money or fix broken water pipes free-of-charge.An infant named Barbarita Acosta, who also goes by the nickname Barbie, is celebrating her first birthday this weekend after overcoming incredible health challenges as a newborn.
Barbie was born with a rare condition called neonatal lupus, which attacked her heart, and she had to receive a pacemaker at five days old. Her condition deteriorated within a few weeks to the point where doctors said she would need a heart transplant to live.
“They told us that very same day that by the end of the night, she would be life-lifted out of there,” mother Angel Moreno told KCRA. “So, we came home and packed up as soon as we can. And we just got in the car and followed the helicopter. Tried to beat it there.”
Barbie was hospitalized for more than 200 days receiving treatment at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford.
Her heart surgery took place in September when she was six months old.
“It literally brought me to my knees. I was crying,” Moreno said. “We only had so long — I believe it was four hours — to make a decision if we wanted the heart or not. So, it was a really hard decision because there were so many good and bads to both sides of saying yes or no to accepting the heart.”
The transplant surgery was a success, and Barbie was able to return home to Sacramento, California, before Thanksgiving.
Barbie’s doctor expects the donor heart to last for several decades, giving Barbie a chance at a normal childhood.
“When I look at her, it’s really hard to believe she’s had a heart transplant because she acts so much like a baby,” Moreno said.The owner of Willie Ray’s Q Shack in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is on his way to help Texas residents affected by the recent winter storm.
In a Facebook post on Thursday, Willie Ray Fairley said he and his employees are traveling south to feed people who were without power, according to KCRG.
“This gesture wasn’t new for Fairly. He gave out thousands of free meals after the derecho hit Eastern Iowa,” the outlet noted.
Fairley asked for anyone willing to haul his smokers and be out of town for at least a week to help the storm victims.
“If someone even had a RV willing to bring I will cover all gas and food. Share share share! Be on the road by noon tomorrow. Short notice but it can be done,” he wrote:
Me and the team is planning on going to Texas to help the needed. By any chance is there a couple volunteers that would… Posted by Willie Ray's Q Shack on Thursday, February 18, 2021
Facebook users expressed their sincere gratitude to the eatery’s owner.
“Texas is blessed to have your Midwest hospitality and good eats headed their way. Shortage of gas and propane down here as well as dairy and meat so bring whatever you need with you. Thank you for your generosity,” one person commented.
“Former Cedar Rapids citizen here in Austin! What an amazing thing y’all are doing! It’s going to mean so much to Texans to have the support! Safe travels!!!!!” another said.
Several people also offered to donate funds and help distribute food when he arrived in the Lone Star State.
After the derecho in Iowa, Fairley fed his neighbors at no charge and said at the time “When a storm happens, you have to become family. Everyone’s family doesn’t matter who you are. You have to stick together.”
Jerica Parker, a former Cedar Rapids resident now living in Texas, said she learned of Fairley’s kindness through friends in her hometown.
“On a primal level, with the fact that we just don’t have food, and people haven’t had a hot meal in 3-4 days, this is amazing,” Parker noted.
“Somebody outside cares. We are not alone. There’s a light at the end of the tunnel. I think it’s going to be a huge morale bust wherever he goes,” she concluded.“We’re now melting snow on the stove to flush out toilets with, and she accidentally poured the pot of boiling water on her leg,” said Grigsby, who is a mom to two boys. “It’s getting kind of crazy around here.”
When the storm swept through the area last week, Grigsby said she and her family had no idea how bad things would get, but she continued reaching out to people when she could.
“Then I started checking on my elderly neighbors once that 24-hour mark passed, and that’s when I found how dire the situation really was,” she explained.
Grigsby said she soon realized they had to stay and help others nearby, adding, “There were opportunities for us to leave and it just wasn’t an option anymore. And that’s the sad part for me, a lot of my neighbors didn’t have the means of staying warm.”
Since that time, their family has done everything in their power to help, such as bringing meals to a neighbor in a wheelchair.Texas Good Samaritans are out in full force during the state’s deep freeze, helping out their fellow Texans in need.
One such Good Samaritan named Raymond Garcia lost power at his home and decided to use his time to help fix residents’ broken water pipes free-of-charge.
Garcia was inspired by his mother, who died of the coronavirus last week, to give back to his community.
“My mom always taught me, if you help and you give to people, God will always bless you,” he told KTRK. “And you know what, I’ve been blessed.”
Another Good Samaritan named Max Bozeman II, of Houston, knew the importance of asking for help in tough times as he received a cancer diagnosis during the pandemic.
Bozeman decided to give back to his community by posting to Instagram, saying he would give $100 to ten people who needed the money to buy food. Instead, he received alot more than ten requests and is prepared to part ways with as much as $10,000 to help those in need.
When the power went out on Thursday at a Houston-area grocery store, one unidentified Good Samaritan began handing out $20 bills to people waiting in line at the store, which could only accept cash because there was no electricity.
3/5 We spotted a Black man making his way up the line, stopping to interact with everyone. He handed something to many of them, but I couldn't tell what it was from so far back. When he got to us, he held up a stack of $20 bills and asked if anyone needed cash. — Jason Spencer (@JSpencer_HCSO) February 17, 2021
Jason Spencer, the Public Affairs Director for the Harris County Sheriff’s Office, witnessed the situation and estimated the man doled out up to $500 without wishing to be photographed or recognized for his efforts.A Chicago teenager who received her associate’s, bachelor’s, and master’s degrees all before the age of 14 has founded her own company to encourage students to learn about Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM).
Dorothy Jean Tillman had a thirst for knowledge that began at a very young age.
“For me, I had always been really advanced and I was enrolled in a gifted kids’ school where I may be at the fourth-grade level doing sixth to eighth-grade work on a daily basis,” Tillman told WGN.
The child prodigy, who goes by the nickname Dorothy Jeanius in her family circles, earned her associate’s degree at the age of ten from the College of Lake County.
By the time she was 12, she had earned her bachelor’s degree in liberal arts and humanities through an online program from Excelsior College in New York.
At that time, Tillman began to take an interest in the environment.
“I was thinking about Coral Reefs and plastic straws and things like that that might have been on social media,” Tillman said.
Two years later, Tillman earned a master’s degree in environmental science from Unity College in Unity, Maine. After she completed her degree, she became the youngest environmental scientist in the U.S.
Now, Tillman is the CEO of her own organization.
She created the Dorothy Jeanius STEAM Educational Leadership Institute in 2020 to encourage students to get excited about learning and develop a passion for STEAM.
Tillman hosts “STEAM camps” on Chicago’s South Side, where on one day, students could learn how to extract DNA from an orange, and the next day they could be rehearsing a dance routine for an upcoming performance.
Even the coronavirus has not set Tillman back. She created at-home kits to keep students engaged through different enrichment programs and is sending those kits around the world.
Tillman believes that learning should be fun and hopes her approach can captivate students around the world.A retired military dog and her former handler are together again after a year apart thanks to help from the country’s largest humane organization.
Bogi and U.S. Marine Corps Sergeant Angela Cardone met in 2017 at the Marine Corps Air Station in Iwakuni, Japan, where the five-year-old Belgian Malinois trained with Cardone in narcotics detection, safety sweeps, and vehicle searches, according to People.
However, the two were forced to part when Cardone was reassigned to Hawaii and for months she worried she would never see her beloved canine again.A Texas resident who almost died in a car crash rescued 145 drivers stranded this week during winter storm Uri.
Ryan Sivley did not think twice about helping when he saw hundreds of drivers stuck on the side of the icy and treacherous roads in Austin, according to People.
Sivley used his four-wheel drive vehicles to rescue 98 cars on Monday and 47 on Tuesday.
“Well, put yourself in their shoes,” he said. “If you were sitting on the side of the road with your wife and your kids and you’re freezing in the car, and it’s not running and you don’t have anywhere to go and you don’t have anyone to call, what do you do?”
“I’ve seen wreckers turning people away because they won’t pull them out due to liability,” Sivley explained. “You need to stay in your car and just freeze to death? If I was in that spot, I would beg and hope that somebody would help me. So that’s what I’m doing.”
The Good Samaritan was inspired to help after he shattered his pelvic bone and nearly lost his life in a car accident in March.Conservation group Sea Turtle, Inc. said it has already rescued approximately 4,000 “cold-stunned” turtles from Texas beaches on Wednesday morning.
Sea Turtle, Inc. has already reached capacity at their South Padre Island facility by the time they spoke to CBS News on Wednesday. But many more of the shelled reptiles still need help. As the overflow are sent to the city’s convention center, Executive Director Wendy Knight told CBS News that SpaceX provided them with a generator to restore power for their ongoing work during the aftermath of Winter Storm Uri.
“We have been working off of generators to charge our phones and spotlights at night,” Knight said. “The convention center has been keeping the sea turtles from the cold elements and has been allowing them to come out of this cold-stunned shock.”
“We do not yet know if this was in time to save our patients in the hospital but this is a huge step forward,” Knight said of the gift. “This is what putting passion into action means and the service they provided us this morning will save countless turtles and will be something we are truly grateful for.”
Thank you to everyone who has been delivering sea turtles to us today! Safety is the #1 priority with search and rescue…. Posted by Sea Turtle, Inc on Tuesday, February 16, 2021
“This is the biggest sea turtle cold-stunned event in south Texas and we are overly grateful for the support. All your donations are helping us pull through,” Sea Turtle Inc. said via Facebook on Tuesday. “All of the residents Gerry, Fred, Allison, Hang Ten, and Merry Christmas are out of their tanks but doing well. A great effort by everyone. A million thanks and a lot more turtle hugs!!”Dozens of volunteers rushed to prepare hundreds of hot meals for seniors in need Wednesday morning in Houston, Texas.
The “Texas Relief Warriors,” a non-profit disaster relief organization, have already fed hundreds of seniors and are working to feed a total of approximately 2,000 in need during the rolling power outages throughout the south caused by Winter Storm Uri. The group has already prepared approximately 800 hot meals on the way to their goal.
The beginning of what will soon turn into 800 breakfast tacos for tomorrow morning. If you're in the Houston area and need a warm meal, please reach out –> https://t.co/KxlcLY8RhN pic.twitter.com/YLVsPHOcJv — CrowdSource Rescue (@cs_rescue) February 17, 2021
Of course, they are just one group dedicated to saving lives in Uri’s aftermath. Good Samaritans such as Tony Buzbee of the Buzbee Law Firm are also offering their resources to the task. Buzbee channeled funds for approximately 800 breakfast tacos through “CrowdSource Rescue,” an organization that connects volunteers with those suffering during difficult times.
“The beginning of what will soon turn into 800 breakfast tacos for tomorrow morning,” CrowdSource Rescue tweeted just after midnight last night. “If you’re in the Houston area and need a warm meal, please reach out.”
On Saturday, President Joe Biden signed a declaration of a state of emergency in Texas, during a three-day weekend at Camp David. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Biden would continue “monitoring the situation in Texas very closely.”
Psaki told reporters Homeland Security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall was in contact with the governors of affected states, and “expressed the President’s strong commitment to ensuring that the federal government proactively does everything it can to support state and local officials and preparing and responding to events that affect our citizens.”Flower shop employees in Chillicothe, Ohio, got a huge surprise on Valentine’s Day when two anonymous donors paid them a visit.
The owners of Sweet William Blossom Boutique said a couple paid for hundreds of dollars worth of merchandise at their store on Sunday so that people unable to give a Valentine could, according to ABC 6.
“I’ve cried probably way too many times today over it,” said co-owner Anni McDonald.
The donors bought an entire rack of colorful flowers and the shop posted a photo of the bouquets on its Facebook page:
Ok you guys… we just had someone anonymously pay for this rack of flowers for anyone who’s had a hard time this year &… Posted by Sweet William Blossom Boutique LLC on Sunday, February 14, 2021
“Ok you guys… we just had someone anonymously pay for this rack of flowers for anyone who’s had a hard time this year & Valentine’s flowers just weren’t in the budget… we cried… please come & take these beauties,” the post read, adding, “People can be so beautiful!”
Following the announcement, it did not take long for the gifts to disappear from the shelves as people came by to take a free gift to their loved ones.
“All of the flowers that he donated are gone,” McDonald said just before 5:00 p.m. on Sunday, adding that the couple returned and bought even more.
“Then he bought forty boxes of strawberries, chocolate covered strawberries,” she explained.
“Holidays like this remind people sometimes what it’s taken away from them so I think he wanted and she wanted to really give back to people and bring some joy to people today who maybe wouldn’t have had it otherwise,” McDonald continued.
Facebook users praised the donors for their generosity and thoughtfulness on Valentine’s Day.
“What the world needs is love. Bless you for your giving heart. I’m sure you’ve made many people feel happy and loved today,” one person commented.
“I love this. Love our community! Thank you to the person that was so generous. You will be rewarded for your act of kindness,” another said.The owner of a Texas-based furniture store chain is opening two of his stores as warming centers in Houston to shelter people from the winter storm.
Many people in the area have suffered power outages that have lasted more than 24 hours, forcing them to seek refuge in warm areas outside their cold, unheated homes.
Since many of these people have nowhere to go, a furniture store owner who goes by the name of “Mattress Mack” opened two of his furniture stores and turned them into warming centers, KTRK reported.
“We’re here to help the community,” Jim “Mattress Mack” McIngvale, owner of Gallery Furniture, told KPRC. “A lot of people are without power. Come see us until the power gets back on.”
The warming centers are complete with food, hot chocolate, sweatshirts, coffee, and blankets.
“The cold is bitter, so we’re opening up the doors to Houstonians,” Mack said, adding that there is security around the clock.
The centers are located at Gallery Furniture at 6006 North Freeway in Houston and Gallery Furniture at 7227 West Grand Parkway South in Richmond.
The first question on Mattress Mack’s mind when the winter storm hit was, “What can we do to help?”
“Whether they want to stay for two hours until their power gets back on, or they want to stay for two days, we’re here for the community,” he said.
As of 11:20 a.m. Tuesday, Mack said about 15 to 20 people were hunkering down at the North Freeway store, but he was expecting more arrivals.
This is not the first time Mack has opened his doors to people in need in times of crisis. In 2017, during Hurricane Harvey, he also opened his doors to those affected by the flooding and ordered employees to pick up people stranded inside their cars and homes.
For those unable to make it to one of Mack’s shelters, there is a list of shelters throughout the Houston area.A young Missouri girl received a kidney donation she had needed since birth thanks to the generosity of her pre-kindergarten teacher.
Five-year-old Kayleigh Kulage was born prematurely at 26 weeks.
Because of her premature birth, she has had kidney problems since she was born that require her parents to set up nightly dialysis.
“If she didn’t have like these tubes on her or anything, you wouldn’t really know anything’s wrong with her,” Desiree, Kayleigh’s mother, told KTVI. “She never cries. She never complains about pain. She’s a happy kid. I couldn’t have been any luckier to have her.”
Robin Mach met Kayleigh a year and a half ago. She taught pre-k and was inspired to donate her kidney because she wanted to see her live a normal life.
“She was a student at our school. And then she had to receive some home services, so I got to do that. So, I’ve been working with Kayleigh for about a year and a half,” Mach said. “She needed it. I wanted her to have a normal life and go to school. And this is how we can help her get there.”
Both surgeries were successful, and Kayleigh’s donated kidney is working well.
Mach keeps in touch daily as she recovers, even offering to help do the family’s laundry and chauffeur her back and forth from the hospital as Kayleigh recuperates.
“She’s incredible. She was offering to do our laundry. And take me back and forth. And I’m like, ‘you just had major surgery. You need to go home and rest,” said Desiree. “I don’t know how to thank her. So, all I keep on saying is thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you.”
Mach is not the first teacher to donate her kidney to a young student.
In 2017, Inside Edition featured a teacher who generously donated her kidney to a five-year-old student with an autoimmune disorder causing kidney failure.A Wisconsin couple is paying it forward to their community in the middle of winter by donating hats, gloves, and blankets to keep people in need warm during frigid temperatures.
Kathleen and Scott LaBonte started the Sheboygan Area Pay it Forward group on Facebook last December, but little did they know the group would become inundated with donations after they posted in the group requesting gloves, hats, and blankets.
“The donations have been overwhelming,” Kathleen told WITI.
Now, the couple has their methods down to a science, bundling assorted items together, including a sweet note, and tying it all together in a bag with string.
Then, they take the bagged items into their van and place the items on park benches, at bus stops, and around lower-income communities.
“It just warms my heart. I saw a gentleman walking down the street with one of the hats, and I knew it was one of the hats because it was a handmade hat that was very distinct, and it almost brought tears to my eyes,” Scott said.
In the two months since Kathleen and Scott started the Facebook page, they — along with the help of their community — have provided 28 Christmas gifts for children, gave five full Christmas dinners to families in need, helped a mother of three who used to be homeless move into an apartment, and gave out more than 500 bags full of hats, scarves, and gloves.A nine-year-old girl from Iowa is spreading the love this Valentine’s Day season by decorating doors with hearts to raise $1,600 for a cancer organization in Nebraska.
“I have this Happy Valentine’s Day red heart,” Evelyn George said, pointing to a red heart taped to her door.
Evelyn was inspired to help people with cancer through crafting, something her mother knows she loves to do as a hobby.
“You know, our dining room looks a little like a war zone with glitter,” Angela chuckled as she told WOWT.
In one month, Evelyn and her mother made around 2,000 paper hearts.
Evelyn called the project “Heart Attack.”
“We’re gonna attack people’s doors,” Evelyn said. “With hearts.”
Angela posted on Facebook that “Heart Attack” was an opportunity to help people through their donations to the Nebraska Cancer Specialists’ Hope Foundation, while Evelyn decorated their front doors using paper hearts for the donors in time for Valentine’s Day.
Evelyn’s experience with cancer hits a little close to home, as her grandfather was diagnosed with esophageal cancer two years ago.
Despite the diagnosis, he is doing okay and helped deliver some of the door decorations to people around town.
Evelyn’s hard work paid off; her efforts raised more than $1,600.
Although it might be too late to get your door decorated, Evelyn’s mother is still accepting donations for the foundation via Venmo with the username @Angela-George-68.The North Carolina medical provider Novant announced a $10 million gift from basketball legend Michael Jordan on Monday morning.
Jordan, a Wilmington native, is perhaps the most famous athlete in history. But aside from his achievements on the court, Jordan has become a footwear icon, a cereal mascot, a movie star, and even a meme. On Monday morning, he added two more life-saving North Carolina medical clinics to the list.
“The regional health care system and Jordan previously partnered to open two Michael Jordan Family Clinics in Charlotte, N.C.,” Novant Health CEO Carl Armato and chief business developer John Gizdic announced earlier today. The press release said the two additional clinics will “[bring] comprehensive primary care, including behavioral health and social support services, to the area’s most vulnerable communities.”
The coming medical resources will serve both “uninsured or underinsured” members of the community outside of Charlotte’s more urban areas. “I am very proud to once again partner with Novant Health to expand the Family Clinic model to bring better access to critical medical services in my hometown,” Jordan said, continuing:
Everyone should have access to quality health care, no matter where they live, or whether or not they have insurance. Wilmington holds a special place in my heart and it’s truly gratifying to be able to give back to the community that supported me throughout my life.
Novant has already provided health care to over 4,500 coronavirus patients in the region and has promised to use Jordan’s gift to reinforce that ongoing support. “This pandemic has exacerbated health equity gaps across our state, making our efforts to close them even more emergent,” Armato said. “We look forward to standing these clinics up as quickly as possible to ensure all members of the community have access to necessary medical care.”A horse that fell in the snow overnight and needed help getting up got a lift from several Vermont community members.
“This was really the community I felt, even though we’re all in isolation — certainly I am — they just rallied,” Gerda Silver, owner of Gerda’s Equine Rescue in West Townshend, Vermont, told the Brattleboro Reformer. “That was cool. I loved it.”
Silver said the barn manager noticed a 20-year-old horse named Teagan was missing during the early morning feeding session for the horses.
Teagan was eventually found lying in the snow, and it appeared that she had struggled to get up using her hind legs, Silver said.
Michaela Kelly, a morning volunteer at the equine rescue, Jim Sprung, and the barn manager’s husband, Tim Smith, tried to assist the barn manager in picking Teagan up.
A tractor and straps were eventually needed to bring the horse to its feet, and more people showed up with the equipment to eventually assist Teagan in getting up and walking her back to her stall.
“It was like clockwork,” Silver said. “After they left, I was just so moved I guess by everybody who came together and didn’t ask anything, just to be able to help. It really warmed my heart for sure.”
Teagan developed a fever after being out in the snow all night and is under veterinary care.
While several Vermont community members got together to lift up a horse, several horses lifted the spirits of humans in their community.
A horse in New England lifted up the spirits of a New England nursing home in April 2020, and a miniature horse lifted the spirits of a three-year-old cancer patient in September 2020.A six-year-old from Kentucky has defeated leukemia and is now starting her own online bakery, serving up treats just in time for Valentine’s Day.
Naiya Garner was diagnosed with leukemia at the age of two, received her last treatment last year, and is now cancer-free and looking ahead at her life without cancer.
“I do still have to get poked at the doctor,” Naiya told WBKO.
While Naiya was receiving treatment for cancer at the hospital, she would watch children compete in cooking tournaments. This inspired her to start her own online bakery, called Naiya’s Bakery.
“This Christmas, she just asked for a bunch of baking stuff. And we started baking, and she loved making cake pops. The goal for me is to do a nonprofit someday. Can’t do that at this moment, but I thought, well, what better way to give back just a little bit?” said Ashley Garner, Naiya’s mother.
Naiya’s favorite thing to bake are cake pops, and she is baking up a special batch of them just in time for Valentine’s Day.
Although the eventual goal is to start a nonprofit, Naiya’s Bakery has an official business license and has passed a health inspection. The business also has a charitable side to it, pledging to give proceeds from every sale to a charity or organization in need.A Colorado hiker’s dog was found alive on a highway eight days after they were supposed to return home from a hike.
Josh Hall, 27, and his dog, Happy, began their hike in Boulder County at the Hessie Trailhead on February 3. Search and rescue crews began searching for them that night, hours after a severe winter storm was reported to have hit the area, ABC News reported.
There was no sign of the pair until Thursday, when Happy was discovered on a highway seven to nine miles away from the trail, according to his family.
Happy shed about 10-15 pounds, but he showed no signs of frostbite, Hall’s stepfather, Nick Vukson, told KMGH.
“Most of us have no idea how he got to that place because we’re not even looking in that area,” Hall’s mother, Laura Vukson, said.
More than 70 people have looked for Hall since he was reported missing, authorities said, but search efforts had been called off due to dangerous weather conditions.
Hall, who is an experienced hiker, began his hike with his dog around 9:30 a.m. February 3, according to the Boulder County Sheriff’s Office.
They were supposed to have returned home by 5:00 p.m. for an online class, his family said.
The Boulder County Communications Center received word that Hall went missing shortly after 6:00 p.m. that day.
“Based on the location of Josh’s last cellphone ping, the terrain, and the belief that he was attempting to hike to Devil’s Thumb Lake, search crews have narrowed down the highest probability area where we believe Josh is,” the sheriff’s office said in a statement.
Hall’s family regained a sense of hope after Happy was found healthy, but are trying not to fear the worst about Hall.
Hall was last seen wearing a dark hat and a green khaki jacket and was believed to have carried a grey or green backpack along with a black leash. His estimated height is 6’4,” and his estimated weight is 200 pounds.
Anyone with information leading to Hall’s whereabouts is urged to contact Boulder County dispatch at 303-441-4444.A seven-year-old boy’s life was saved this week thanks to the quick thinking of a sanitation worker in Hillsborough County, Florida.
As Elias Quezada played inside a garbage can outside his home on Tuesday, he soon found himself in a sticky situation, Fox 8 reported.
He was hiding inside the can when the Waste Connections truck came by and scooped it up and dumped the contents, including Quezada, into the garbage truck.
“In a minute he went out and the next thing I hear is the sound of the truck and a guy screaming,” his grandmother, Carmen Salazar, recalled.
“I got picked up and thrown, to where I was going to be a mashed potato,” Quezada added.
However, as the truck’s arm picked up the can, driver Waldo Fidele checked the surveillance camera and saw Quezada dumped inside. He then quickly deactivated the blade used to chop the trash to pieces.
“It was a bad day for me. I was scared,” Fidele noted.
“I come outside. I see him, he seemed happy, happy! I said ok, you’re ok now,” he continued.
The truck deals with trash the same as a garbage disposal and after dumping, it is transported to an incendiary, according to Shawn Plunkett, operations manager for Waste Connections of Florida Operations in Tampa.A woman is going above and beyond to be close to her husband at the nursing home where he lives in Plattsburgh, New York.
John and Cynthia Romano met when they both worked for customs in 1977 at the border crossing in Champlain, New York, NBC 5 reported Friday.
“This year will be our 31st year of wedded bliss,” Cynthia told the outlet.
Since 2018, her husband has been living at the Plattsburgh Rehabilitation and Nursing Center, and when the coronavirus pandemic hit last spring, it kept visitors from entering the facility.
“We did everything together so being separated was really hard,” Cynthia recalled, adding, “It affected him and I know it affected me not being able to be close to him.”
“We did do some FaceTime and window visits, and then for some crazy reason, I started thinking about working here so that I could be with him more. He’s laughing here,” she noted.
In November, the devoted wife joined the facility’s kitchen staff and then the housekeeping team.
“Whenever I see him, I always stop and chat with him for a little bit,” Cynthia explained.
The nursing home’s mission is “to provide personal care and the highest quality-of-life by partnering with residents and families to foster meaningful relationships,” according to its website.
Barbara McNierney, who is the activities director at the facility, said her staff members work hard to keep residents’ spirits up.
“We try everything that we can to make our residents smile, so when his wife was there, it’s just so heart-melting,” she commented.
Cynthia knows her presence is a big part of her husband’s overall well-being.
“After 30 years of being together all the time, to where we were separated for so long, it just means a lot to me to be able to see him, and I think it makes a difference for him too. You know?” she noted.
“To be able to see me because he always smiles, and sometimes he’ll give me a kiss or a hug,” said Cynthia, who is scheduled to work on Valentine’s Day.An eight-year-old border collie in Nashville, Tennessee, will be well cared-for after receiving a massive inheritance from her late owner.
Bill Dorris never married, but he did not have to spend the last years of his life alone. His affection for Lulu, his border collie, became a matter of record after his death in late 2020. Dorris left five million dollars in trust for Lulu’s care, which her caretaker, Martha Burton, now oversees.
Burton has known both the 88-year-old Dorris — and eight-year-old Lulu — for years, often taking care of her when her owner traveled. “I don’t really know what to think about it to tell you the truth. He just really loved the dog,” she said. Lulu was often found in her chosen position on the front porch of Dorris’ home, as a self-appointed guardian. “She’s a good girl,” Burton said.
The trust reportedly covers reimbursement for “reasonable monthly expenses,” which are unlikely to reach anywhere near that sum within the dog’s lifetime. It remains unclear where the remaining money will go at the end of Lulu’s life. Burton acknowledged the impossibility of spending so much on Dorris’ best friend. But even so, she said, “we’d like to try.”A dog named Shadow in Hurricane, West Virginia, is getting lots of attention for helping save an elderly man recently from a house fire.
The Great Dane alerted neighbor Ronald Call to a fire around 4:00 a.m. Wednesday at his grandfather’s nearby home and he and his cousin worked to put out the flames and get the 83-year-old to safety, WCHS reported.
In a Facebook post, Mayor Scott Edwards said Ronald awoke to the noise of the dog moving back and forth on his porch and moments later he saw the fire glowing at the house.Restaurateur Robert Magiet is making the rounds of Chicago’s streets to buy out vendors’ tamales, so the vendors do not freeze in Chicago’s winters.
Magiet says he buys on average 15 dozen tamales for about $16 a dozen.
“At first, they are in disbelief. They don’t understand why someone would want to buy so many tamales,” he told CNN.
Magiet is the owner of the Korean-Mexican fusion restaurant TaKorea Cocina.
He was inspired to buy out these weather-beaten vendors while seeing them trying to eke out livings in sub-freezing temperatures. So he pulls over and makes his purchases.
“What’s great is when we visit vendors for a second time and seeing how excited they are, knowing they are about to get bought out and get to go home,” he said.
He spends the rest of his mornings stocking up community refrigerators for people in need of food free of charge or donating the tamales to homeless shelters.
As of right now, tamales are not on the menu at TaKorea Cocina. But that may change as Magiet is in talks with several vendors to create a Korean-style tamale.
In the meantime, he encourages others to help the needy as best they can, especially during the pandemic.
“All it takes is one act of kindness, and others will notice and join in,” he said. “Together, we can all make a huge difference in others’ lives. It’s never been more important to support each other.”One Chick-fil-A employee in Wisconsin formed such a tight bond with one of her coworkers that she gifted her a car.
Haley Bridges, 17, knew her fellow coworker Hokule’a Taniguchi, 19, was using a bicycle to get to work in the middle of the Wisconsin winter and wanted to do something to help.
So when she learned she won a car at the company Christmas party raffle in December, she knew exactly who to give the prize to.
Bridges and Taniguchi had become fast friends since the two began working together, and they would often see each other outside of work hours.
But their friendship grew stronger at the Chick-fil-A Christmas party.
Bridges said the raffle is the main attraction of the Christmas party, and there was a rumor at the time that a car would be the grand prize.
“Everyone would get raffle tickets, and how many hours you work determines how many you get. I received five tickets,” she said.
The night of the party, they did, in fact, see there was a car being raffled off.
Bridges said her friends have always been willing to go to bat for Taniguchi, and decided that if any of them won the grand prize, they would give it to her.
When Bridges’s name was called, she said it was an emotional moment.
“Once my name was called by one of the bosses, Hoku and I looked at each other; this is when she started to cry. I’ve never seen her emotional side much. She is a very happy person and very funny and goofy as well. We looked at each other, and I started to cry as well,” Bridged recalled to Today Food.
Since Taniguchi received the car, she got approved for an apartment that was closer to work.
“It’s crazy seeing her car parked in the parking lot, and I’m glad that she has a reliable ride to work and the grocery store as well!” Bridges said.
Bridges is not the only Chick-fil-A employee who has done something extraordinary. One Georgia Chick-fil-A employee saved a choking child in a car waiting in the store’s drive-thru line in October.Two Louisiana sanitation workers on their usual trash route helped to save a kidnapped ten-year-old girl.
The garbage workers sprang into action when they realized the car she was taken in was the vehicle described in an Amber Alert while they were out collecting trash Monday morning, WWL reported.
“Something told me, ‘Just look.’ I said, ‘What’s that car doing way ducked off in in the field like that?”’ Dion Merrick said.
“And he was like, ‘B, you know what I just saw … man, that looks like that silver Nissan on the Amber Alert,'” Brandon Antoine recalled.
Merrick immediately began livestreaming the encounter on Facebook when he spotted the Nissan in an empty field, KATC reported.
The car matched the description sent out in the Amber Alert the night before, so Merrick decided to back his garbage truck in the suspect’s driveway to ensure he would not be able to escape and dialed 911.
Both men said the situation hit them close to home because they are fathers.
The suspect, 33-year-old Michael Sereal, was arrested and brought to the New Iberia Police Department, where he faces a charge of aggravated kidnapping, the Lafayette Daily Advertiser reported.
Merrick and Antoine received praise from their supervisor for going above and beyond their job duties.
“We couldn’t be prouder of Dion and Brandon,” CEO of Pelican Waste & Debris Roddie Matherne told ABC News. “This was an exceptional thing that may very well have saved a little girl’s [life].”A U.S. Marine Corps. veteran broke ground on his custom home Saturday, which will be completed by this summer thanks to the nonprofit Homes for Our Troops.
Homes for Our Troops is helping to build a custom home for Sgt. Chris Hancock, who lost both legs serving in the Afghanistan War and had trouble getting around his current home.
“I have to look first at the walls to see how close I am to avoid scraping the wall with my wheelchair,” Hancock told WCTI.
Homes for Our Troops Executive Director Billy Ivey said the organization’s mission is to build homes that are custom-built for “severely injured veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan” who often have mobility issues.
“It really restores the freedom and independence that they sacrificed in Iraq or Afghanistan when they were injured,” Ivey said.
Hancock said he is grateful for the space his custom home will provide and that a simple “thanks” would not be enough to show his gratitude.
Hancock’s story is not uncommon, especially among nonprofits and anonymous donors that donate homes to veterans.
In January 2020, an anonymous donor gifted a $500,000 home to a veteran through a Santa Clarita, California, veterans’ organization.
The nonprofit Building Homes for Heroes donated a home free-of-charge to a Navy SEAL in December 2019, and the Military Warriors Support Foundation gifted a mortgage-free home to an injured Army veteran in November 2019.“At 7am, our Sheriff’s Search and Rescue Team, deputies, boat patrol deputies and deputies from Calaveras County Sheriff’s Office began another search of the area,” the post read:
A life saved by heroic actions. This morning, just after midnight, our office received a tip of a male who was… Posted by Tuolumne County Sheriff on Monday, February 8, 2021
The man was eventually located on the Parrotts Ferry bridge around 10:00 a.m., and Corporal Long negotiated with him for about ten minutes.
However, when the individual tried to jump from the bridge into the water below, Long grabbed hold of him through the railing.
“Corporal Long was able to hold the man as he dangled for approximately 30 seconds. Calaveras County Deputy Markovitz came over and helped,” the department said.
Together, Long, Markovitz, and members of the TCSO’s Search and Rescue Team pulled the individual over the railing to safety.
He was then transported to a local hospital for evaluation but was not hurt during the incident.
“We want to thank all of our allied agencies and the heroic work of all law enforcement personnel today. Your bravery, dedication and persistence saved a life,” the sheriff’s office said.
Facebook users also praised their efforts and expressed concern for the man’s well-being.
“That’s an amazing save!! Thank you officers, for persevering!” one person wrote.
“Great Job of protecting and serving. Thank you all who help out in finding and saving this man his cry for help was heard,” another commented.A Texas family received a life-changing surprise last week when an anonymous donor offered to match up to $50,000 for a week to help fund treatments for a three-month-old’s rare genetic disorder.
KPRC reported the family is hoping to raise money to fund an experimental gene therapy treatment for their three-month-old son, which will hopefully save his life.
One of the family’s kids, five-year-old Addi, was born with Metachromatic Leukodystrophy, a genetic brain disease where the person loses the ability to walk, talk, and eat independently.
The average life expectancy for someone with this disease is five to ten years, according to a page from the National Institutes of Health.
Although it is too late to save Addi, the family tested their three-month-old son Ollie for the disease.
Since he tested positive, the family is trying to raise money for an experimental gene therapy treatment at an Italian hospital that could delay the disease’s progression or stop it altogether.
“They’ll add back the enzyme that he’s missing,” Victoria Rasberry, Ollie’s mother, said.
However, the family is in a race against time as the doctors say the procedure needs to be done by March. Because insurance will not cover the cost of treatment, the family will be responsible for paying half a million dollars.
A GoFundMe campaign has been set up for the family to help offset the costs of treatment. As of Tuesday afternoon, the page has raised more than $289,000 out of its $500,000 goal.A community in Fultondale, Alabama, rallied for a retired school janitor who lost his home to a tornado on January 25, raising more than $50,000 as of Tuesday.
The F-3 tornado that demolished parts of Jefferson County had up to 150 miles per hour and spanned 900 yards. It killed one person and caused significant damage throughout the region, AL.com reported.
Johnny Bullard, a retired janitor from Tarrant Elementary School, recalls the night the F-3 tornado hit his home.
“And when I walked in my living room, that’s when it hit my house,” Bullard told WVTM. “And then it knocked me back against the wall, and that’s when the debris fell on me.”
Friends said Bullard had no insurance and lost not just his house, but all of his belongings in the storm.
So, friends and community members decided to step in to help.
Friends and other community members set up a GoFundMe account for Bullard. As of Tuesday morning, the account had raised more than $50,000.
Bullard said the generosity he has received from others is a “miracle.” But while he is thankful for the assistance, he is still unsure of what his next move is going to be.
“Just take one day at a time. Every day you gotta do something different,” he said.A woman who went onto a closed pier in Hoboken, New Jersey, to take a picture fell into the icy waters of the Hudson River and was rescued by the Hoboken, New Jersey, police.
Chief Ken Ferrante said the incident took place early Saturday when the 24-year-old woman, of Berkeley Heights, climbed a fence near Hoboken’s Pier 13 but could not see the gap between the pier and the dock due to poor visibility, News 12 New Jersey reported.
Because of the snow and darkness surrounding her, she could not see where she was going and fell more than ten feet into the icy water.
An officer reported the woman was submerged up to her waist, clinging to a piece of metal.
Police officers stabilized her with two water bags and tied a rope around her to lift her to safety.
“It took a collaborative effort with all officers putting their safety at risk to save the victim from drowning,” said Lt. Danilo Cabrera.
“It was unsettling, and it was not safe for us to go out on the pier, because we didn’t know if the pier was compromised, or if there was a hole,” Hoboken Police Officer Duke McCourt told WABC. “It was all covered with snow, and it was chaotic, and we’re just happy everything worked out.”
The woman was transported to Hoboken University Medical Center, where an update on her condition was unavailable.A Texas community is coming together to help a 95-year-old World War II veteran with his home repairs.
Alfred Guerra, 95, served during the Pacific War and received a Purple Heart and Bronze Star for his bravery in combat, KENS 5 reported.
After Guerra was injured in battle, he returned to the U.S. to live in San Antonio, Texas.
Maria Guerra, Alfred’s daughter, said the house where he lives has been standing since before 1942 and has a history of its own.
“I often asked my dad how this house is even standing,” Maria Guerra said.
She added that it was time to remodel her father’s home, but did not realize at the time the amount of work that had to be done.
“One thing after another, everything started falling apart. We noticed part of the house sunk, so we needed to get it fixed,” Maria Guerra said.
Maria said the conditions were so poor at her father’s house that she moved him out and started a GoFundMe page on behalf of the family to raise money for the repairs.
Thanks to the generosity of a few community partners around San Antonio, the house has an upgraded air conditioning system and insulation, as well as a replaced roof.
But the house still has a long way to go before it is livable again. The house is still in dire need of siding, electrical, and plumbing work before the house is in tip-top shape again.
Maria appreciates everyone who has helped or donated to the cause so far. As of Sunday afternoon, the GoFundMe page raised $4,605 out of its $5,000 goal.
“He’s just totally overwhelmed by all of the giving and everybody that’s help to come work on his house, and it’s a blessing,” she said.
Guerra is not the only one to receive help from his community to rebuild his home.
In March 2020, a Vietnam War veteran received a home makeover free of charge thanks to several community partnerships, and in November 2019, one military veteran with special needs children was gifted thousands of dollars in home repairs.A man decided to do something about the crisis of loneliness that many nursing home residents are facing due to the coronavirus pandemic.
“It’s been a crappy year all around for us,’’ Thomas Phillips, 62, who is a resident of Grand Rehabilitation and Nursing home in Rome, New York, told Syracuse.com. “No holidays, no celebrations, no getting together, no visitors. Masks and lockdowns.”
With Valentine’s Day coming up, Phillips decided to make and send a valentine to every nursing home resident in the central New York area and beyond.
Phillips connected with Ky Reardon on social media to get Valentine’s Day cards delivered to the more than 11,000 nursing home residents in the central New York area.
Since Phillips has serious heart problems, he tries to connect with the outside world through social media and now through this project, who Reardon and Phillips have dubbed “Operation Valentine.”
Soon, the project had 22 nursing homes sending cards to nearly 3,000 residents, with some residents living as far away as Virginia and North Carolina.
An aide bought 600 Valentine’s Day cards for Phillips to sign and then had someone deliver the cards to drop boxes at area coffee shops. Then, volunteers pick up the cards from the drop boxes and deliver them to the nursing homes.
More than 125 volunteers who live outside the nursing home have also created cards from scratch to deliver to nursing homes. Some cards are being dropped off, while others are being sent through the mail.
“I just want to bring a smile to their faces, and maybe they can hang in their windows and know someone cares,’’ he said. “We are all Cupids, and we just want to do a nice thing for everyone who has had such a really tough year.”
Phillips is not the only upstate New York resident to organize a Valentine’s Day card drive this year.
New York State Assemblyman Mike Norris (R-Lockport) organized a handmade Valentine’s Day card drive where local students would make valentines for seniors in nursing homes.
AARP has also organized a program called “Cupid Crew” where volunteers can download cards, decorate them, and personalize them with messages before sending them off to residential care facilities across the country.A veteran in Orange County, North Carolina, can now rest easy inside his home thanks to a nationwide project.
United States Army veteran William Torain got a replacement roof last week for his home located in Hillsborough, the News of Orange County reported January 28.
“After a daylong deluge of rain, a crew from HRH Roofing went right to work replacing Torain’s leaking roof as part of the Owens Corning Roof Deployment Project, which selects veterans from across the nation to receive roof replacements,” the newspaper said.
Owens Corning supplies all the materials for the projects, the outlet continued:
John Pickard, a representative with Owens Corning Sales’ Raleigh Team, said the company has provided shingles for more than 225 veterans nationwide through its Roof Deployment Project. The company will pick a veteran in need, and then set up the project with an Owens Corning Platinum Contractor in the area of the veteran.
“This means a lot to us,” said Ras Homes of HRH Roofing in Raleigh. “It’s our way of saying ‘thank you for your service.’ I would do one of these every month, if I could.”
Habitat for Humanity of Orange County also helped with the project.
“We work with a lot of veterans,” said Kaitlyn Kopala, the organization’s communications and events coordinator. “We’ve worked on Torain’s house before, replacing some broken windows, repairing some electrical issues, and replacing porch railing.”
“The new roof through the Roof Deployment Project allows Habitat for Humanity to have the funds to do other repairs on Torain’s home,” she noted.
In a Facebook post on January 27, the organization shared photos of Torain outside his house, writing that the veteran “served as a parachutist in the Army from 1958-1962. Thank you for your service to our county”:
Thank you to HRH Roofing and Owens Corning for donating materials and labor to get veteran Mr. Torain a new roof on his… Posted by Habitat for Humanity, Orange County, NC on Wednesday, January 27, 2021
The elderly veteran said he grew up in Orange County and previously lived across the road from his current location.
“I helped build this house in 1974 with a lot of my family, and I’m happy to see the new roof go on,” he commented.German scientists have trained dogs to sniff out the “corona odour” in human saliva with a 94 per cent accuracy rate, even with those who are asymptomatic, they claim.
Veterinarians at the Hanover University of Veterinary Medicine trained Filou, a three-year-old Belgian Malinois, and one-year-old Joe Cocker the English Cocker Spaniel to detect the Chinese virus.
Senior State Veterinarian Dr Esther Schalke from the armed forces’ school for service dogs said that the animals do not sniff out the virus itself, explaining, according to Bild: “The virus attacks the cells, which changes the metabolism, and other molecules than normal are released. The dog smells that.”
The dogs are trained by sniffing holes in boxes, some of which contain samples of COVID-19. If the dog identifies the sample, he or she is given a treat.
Filou and Joe Cocker are two of the eight dogs to be retrained to detect the virus after previously working as cadaver or mine-sniffing dogs. Paula Jendrny, who is writing her thesis on the sniffer dogs, said that scent animals could be trained to detect anything.
“As long as they have fun and want to ‘work’. Ultimately, the dogs don’t care what they sniffed out — as long as there is a reward at the end for the correct result,” Ms Jendrny said.
State premier of Lower Saxony Stephan Weil called for more studies, saying that it could be rolled out at airports and border crossings.
Professor Dr Holger Volk, head of the clinic, said that the sniffer dogs offer a quicker and less invasive way of checking if someone is infected, even if they are asymptomatic.
“So dogs can really sniff out people with infections and without infections, as well as asymptomatic and symptomatic COVID patients,” said Professor Volk.
“Since dogs make a decision within a few seconds and are thus significantly faster than rapid antigen tests and there is no unpleasant nasopharynx swab required for the PCR tests, their use is particularly attractive for larger crowds,” he added.
COVID-sniffing dogs are already being employed at airports in Santiago, Chile, Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, and Helsinki in Finland. Trials are also taking place in Italy, Belgium, France, and Australia, amongst other nations.
British charity Medical Detection Dogs based in Milton Keynes, England, began trials last March in partnership with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM). Dogs were already being trained to sniff out other diseases and conditions like malaria, low blood sugar, and Parkinson’s disease.
In October 2020, the Guide Dogs charity donated dogs to Medical Detection Dogs which were unsuitable for working with the blind. Medical Detection Dogs told The Guardian in December that they hope to advance the animals’ training early this year to work with people and in busy, noisy environments, such as airports.A college student who went all in on the GameStop stock craze used his windfall to buy Nintendo Switches and donated them to a children’s hospital this weekend.
“I am proud to announce my humble donation of 6 Nintendo Switches and games to go with them to the Children’s Minnesota Hospital,” Hunter Kahn wrote on Instagram, posting a photo of himself with the consoles purchased from GameStop. “Can’t stop. Won’t stop.”
Kahn also posted about his donation on Reddit, where his post had received more than 175,000 upvotes.
“It was a better feeling than waking up in the morning and seeing that [GameStop’s stock price] was on the moon,” Kahn told WCCO. “I love video games. I know it would be terrible being a kid in a hospital with no joy helping them through.”
Children’s Minnesota responded to his donation in a Facebook post, saying, “Thank you to Hunter Kahn for donating six Nintendo Switches as well as a heap of games to Children’s Minnesota — we are so grateful!”
Kahn told the New York Post he sold $30,000 of his GameStop stock, but has plans to keep the first 50 shares he bought.
GameStop’s stock closed Tuesday at $90 per share after hitting $470 per share in January.An Illinois third-grader who began crafting with beads as a hobby while quarantined during the coronavirus pandemic is using her hobby to help others.
“I wanted to help sick people, care for them, and raise money to get the tools they need,” said Ruby Goldkind, 8, who founded “Ruby’s Tasty Treat Coasters.”
Half of all proceeds would benefit Lurie Children’s Hospital in Chicago, NBC 5 Chicago reported.
Goldkind began creating coasters out of beads to look like cookies, candy, and doughnuts. When the orders skyrocketed, her mother and five-year-old brother joined in on the project.
Ruby is taking orders for her coasters through her Facebook page and through this order form.
Prices range from $2 to $5 each, and the coasters come in different shapes, from soccer balls to a recreation of Bernie Sanders and his mittens.
The family is also soliciting suggestions for other designs. Goldkind said her goal is to donate at least $500. So far, the family has made more than 200 coasters and has raised $200.
“I’m really proud that she’s using her time to do something so special,” her mother said. “I’m very proud of her.”A Louisiana community raised $30,000 gathered from multiple fundraisers to go towards a local family’s adoption expenses.
Cody and Anthea Comardelle had talked about adopting a child for a while, but they did not expect the process to be as expensive as it was.
“Adoption was always on my heart since I was a little girl,” Anthea told the St. Charles Herald-Guide. “I always knew growing up that I would adopt and when I met my husband, it’s something we talked about.”
The adoption talk subsided when the couple experienced married life for a few years and had a son of their own. But in 2020, they reconsidered adoption, and in that summer, they had a plan.
“We applied with an agency in late August, and we were called in October and asked how far along we were in the home study because there was a baby due in January,” Anthea said.
“Everything happened so quickly. We were open to either international or domestic adoption, but with COVID, we couldn’t even fly out [of] the country. We didn’t care if it was a child or a newborn,” she added.
The quick process meant the Comardelles had to come up with just over $50,000 in adoption expenses and fast.
“Our community … we’re just so blown away,” Anthea said. “It was about $53,000 that we needed, and from August to December, we raised $30.000. Our community is small, but their love and support was huge.”
The community organized pancake sales, biking pledges, silent raffles, and pie sales, among other fundraisers, to defray the adoption’s upfront costs.
Anthea said God answered everyone’s prayers about the adoption process, including their son’s prayer for a brother.
Despite the pandemic, adoptions have been continuing via online platforms such as Zoom. In December 2020, a couple adopted four siblings in a Zoom adoption ceremony.
One foster family adopted their second child over Zoom in an August 2020 adoption ceremony, and a two-year-old boy was adopted over Zoom in April 2020 after the coronavirus canceled in-person court hearings.A mother and daughter in need of a wheelchair accessible van finally got their wish thanks to generous community members in Beaumont, Texas.
When Melissa Johnson asked for help with getting a vehicle to more easily transport her daughter who has cerebral palsy, the donations began pouring in, according to 12 News Now.
“Grace was born at 29 weeks and suffered a brain bleed at birth. After 3 months in the NICU, Grace became my daughter through adoption,” Melissa said on the nonprofit group Love Rescues website:
Throughout her 6 years of life, Grace has overcome many obstacles including 4 brain surgeries. She is daily learning to overcome challenges and meet critical milestones. Grace has hydrocephalus, a VP shunt, and cerebral palsy affecting mainly her legs and her ability to walk. Her legs are very stiff and standing or walking independently is not possible at this time.
Three weeks ago, the fundraiser reached 40 percent, then quickly met its goal.
On Saturday, family, friends, and church members gathered outside Beaumont’s First Baptist Church where Melissa works as the children’s pastor to give Grace and her mother the special van.
The six-year-old smiled and waved as she was wheeled up the ramp and into the vehicle.
Melissa expressed her thanks and said for the first time in quite a while, they were going to go on adventures together.
“We’ll get to go to the library. I can’t wait to take her to school on Monday. Just all the things that have been such a challenge for so long, today that changes. And we get to kind of go at ease again and to make life more enjoyable,” she explained.
She also encouraged others to continue helping people with special needs because “it is truly lifesaving for the families involved.”
As for Grace, she has already made up her mind as to where she wants to go first.He eventually qualified to participate with Taeden in activities outside of school with the supervision of the mentor program and his family. Zac also took him to college basketball games, the mall, and church.
“Ultimately he became a best friend to me, and also in reverse to him. I was always there for the whole family, we’re all best friends, we’re all in this together,” he stated.
When a fire destroyed Taeden’s home on Wednesday he survived, but firefighters were unable to save his mother, grandmother, and younger sister.
He is now living with his other grandmother and experiencing immense grief and shock.In South Carolina, an entire community is helping a man pursue his firefighting dreams despite losing his leg to a motorcycle accident two years ago.
“It’s been two years, and I’m honored that people still are still thinking about me and helping to reach my goals,” Brandon Zinn told WACH. “It’s still my dream to become an above-the-knee firefighter.”
Zinn was in the middle of training to be a firefighter when he got into a motorcycle accident that took out one of his legs on January 19, 2019. Still, he has not given up on his dreams thanks to the supportive community around him.
“It was a very difficult path to do. I pretty much had to relearn everything a little bit different,” said Zinn. “Like stairs, stairs are still a struggle. They’re getting better every day, but they’re still a struggle.”
But Zinn says he has not let these obstacles get in the way of achieving his dream.
He is taking an EMT class while continuing his physical rehabilitation, Cola Daily reported.
Zinn was able to get a prosthetic leg through insurance, but he needs a foot piece that can help him get into firefighter gear quickly and efficiently.
So a group of first responders decided to chip in and help.
“Tomorrow, we’re playing against the Myrtle Beach Department hockey team, and we’ve set up the game to help benefit Brandon Zinn,” said Cpl. Scott Hunger.
Officials are not only excited to play hockey, but they are also happy they can help Zinn achieve his dream.
Zinn says he is grateful for the amount of support he has received and looks forward to watching Saturday’s hockey game.
The game starts at 5:00 p.m. Saturday at the Irmo Plex Center. For those that cannot attend the game, there is a GoFundMe page to raise money for Zinn and his family.
As of Saturday afternoon, the page has raised nearly $14,000.In Georgia, a church community helped its pastor raise more than $10,000 for a heart transplant in a now-viral giving campaign.
Pastor Tony Fraley has served in his ministry for more than 40 years and has served as pastor of Vaughn Chapel Baptist Church in Milledgeville, Georgia, for the past 13 years. He is now looking to his community for help as he awaits heart transplant surgery.
Fraley had battled congestive heart failure for more than 20 years and managed his condition with a combination of medications until last year when his health took a turn for the worse.
Lisa Shinholster, an associate minister at Vaughn Chapel and Fraley’s business partner, said Fraley was experiencing additional symptoms by November that required him to be admitted into the hospital for a series of tests.
“They did everything from a genetic study, to a kidney analysis, to his heart, his lungs; they checked everything out to make sure that they knew what plan of action he needed to take,” Shinholster told the Union-Recorder.
Based on the test results, he had two options: get help from a left ventricular assist device or have heart transplant surgery.
Fraley decided he did not want to live the rest of his life connected to a device, so he opted for transplant surgery.
Even though Fraley has health insurance, the cost of Fraley’s treatment will be around $20,000 to $30,000 per year due to the number of immunosuppressive medications he has to take to keep his body from rejecting the transplant, the Macon Telegraph reported.
That is when Shinholster launched a GoFundMe page and worked with friends and faith communities to get the word out. The community also created a bank account for donations.
Checks and money orders to the account can be made to Tony E. Fraley Fundraiser, and donors should write: “Heart Transplant Fundraiser” in the check’s memo line. The checks can be sent to P.O. Box 555, Milledgeville, Georgia, 31059-0555.
With the $10,000 raised from the GoFundMe account and the bank account’s money, Shinholster said the community was able to secure Fraley a spot on Emory University’s transplant list.
Fraley said he was grateful for the support.
“This malfunction that has been placed on me, I really feel in my heart that it is for the glory and edification of God, and you have made it so easy by your act of kindness, your act of love, your act of concern for my well being,” Fraley said in a video posted to the GoFundMe page.Firefighters saved a 14-year-old’s life after he found himself trapped beneath several feet of snow in Truckee, California, on Wednesday.
“The boy had been playing inside of a snow cave just outside of his home, located in the Serene Lakes area, when an accumulation of snowfall fell from the roof and buried him,” KTVU reported.
Family members waited for him to return home, but when he failed to do so, they called 911.
“The experienced first arriving firefighter/paramedics from Truckee Fire immediately suspected a roof avalanche and began probing the debris at the bottom of the roof,” the department said in a notification post.
Once the first responders got a “hit” with the probe, they began digging and recovered the teenager alive nearly five feet underneath the snow.
“We are extremely happy to share this successful rescue because often these don’t turn out as well. Don’t let this or other winter hazards get you or your family this winter,” the post continued.
The department also offered additional safety advice.
“Stay away from the area where snow slides off the roof, especially metal roofs. The snow can come off very forcefully injuring, burying or even killing a person. Keep kids away from playing in these areas, use the buddy system and check on them frequently,” the notification said.
The boy’s condition was not immediately known, according to the KTVU report.Several Oregon healthcare workers stranded in the snow decided to offer coronavirus vaccinations to their fellow stranded drivers so the vaccines would not go to waste.
The New York Times reported that Josephine County, Oregon, public health director Michael Weber found himself stranded in a snowstorm in the middle of the highway with vaccine doses that would expire in six hours.
Weber and other public health workers were taking doses of the Moderna vaccine to Grants Pass, which was about 30 miles away from where they were.
When Weber and his team realized they could be stuck on the road for hours, they decided to offer the vaccines to the drivers stranded around them.
Most drivers declined the shot because of the unusual nature of the situation. Although Weber added there was a doctor and ambulance at the scene to oversee the vaccine administration.
“We had one individual who was so happy, he took his shirt off and jumped out of the car,” said Weber.
“It was a strange conversation,” Weber added. “Imagine yourself stranded on the side of the road in a snowstorm and having someone walk up and say: ‘Hey. Would you like a shot in the arm?’”
The team ultimately gave out six doses of the vaccine on the snow-covered highway, according to the Times.
Weber was glad that some of the supply did not go to waste.
“Our No. 1 rule right now is nothing gets wasted,” he said.
According to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the U.S. had administered a total of 26,193,682 doses of both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines.U.S. Army veteran Teresa Birge lost her Oklahoma home of 40 years and everything she owned inside ten days before Christmas due to a fire.
“It was just like everything you ever had was gone in just a few hours,” Birge told KJRH.
As an Army veteran, Birge never felt hopeless until the fire consumed her home.
“I was about to give up on everything, a month ago, I didn’t know what I was gonna [do],” she said.
But things changed for the better when fellow veteran Robert Lint, who was working on a project for homeless veterans, heard of her plight.
Lint said he knew of a gentleman who had two trailers that could be used for veterans at no cost.
He reached out to Birge, and within ten days, Birge had a fully-furnished two-bedroom mobile home.
Birge said that although her replacement home will never replace her old home, she is grateful for having a place to live.
“It’s amazing, and it is heartfelt, and you feel it, yeah, I feel it,” Birge said.
Birge is not the only U.S. veteran to lose a home to a fire and receive support from the community.
A U.S. Army veteran and his family from Kentucky lost their home to a fire in December 2020, but the Louisville Veterans’ Club offered their support in their time of need, WDRB reported.
And in March 2020, a veteran lost everything in a fire, including his late mother’s ashes. Friends, neighbors, and city council members stepped in to donate clothes and shoes, WJBK reported.A boy who owns a popular lemonade stand in South Philadelphia is getting ready to take his business on the road.
Ten-year-old Micah Harrigan made a name for himself last summer with his lemonade and tea stand called Micah’s Mixx, radio.com reported Monday.
“He garnered a large social media following, and the business he’s been running with his mother for two years became an official LLC,” the article said.
Micah also received support from neighbors and his next move is expanding his business to the food truck model.
“Because we’re small, we’re not getting a whole gigantic bus. It’s like a mini school bus,” he explained. “The bus is like a whole restaurant on wheels, or at least it will be when we fix it up.”
Micah shared photos of himself and the bus to his Instagram profile on January 14, writing, “Thanks to your donations and the purchase of over 1500 bottles of lemonade I have my minibus!”:
“Now I start the hard work of raising enough funds to actually make it a food truck. My mom was hesitant to do this but we really underestimated the cost it takes to turn a bus into a food truck,” he continued.
The two hope to have the vehicle ready for business by springtime and created a GoFundMe page to raise money for the project.
“We can start the work, but hopefully the donations will keep coming in,” said his mother, Danielle.
As of Monday afternoon, the page had raised $2,770 of its $10,000 goal.
According to the Micah’s Mixx website, the young man has always dreamed of owning a business and draws inspiration from people such as Steve Jobs, who started Apple in his garage.
Now, he attributes his success to those who have offered a helping hand along the way.A two-time war veteran from Farmington, Utah, received a parade this weekend as a surprise from his community to celebrate his 100th birthday.
“Grandpa Wallace,” as he is known to the community, turned 100 years old Monday. He served in both World War II and the Korean War.
His family organized a socially-distanced friendly parade through his neighborhood to celebrate the occasion, KSL reported.
Wallace’s family includes eight children, 40 grandchildren, and 100 great-grandchildren.
One of his children who organized the event said he had lived a full life and it is not even over yet.
“We’re happy he’s still here, and we’re celebrating that he’s here,” one of his daughters who organized the parade said.
Wallace is not the first World War II veteran or person to turn 100, to receive a parade honoring his 100th birthday.
In April 2020, a 100-year-old World War II veteran celebrated his 100th birthday with a car parade thanks to a little help from his community.
That same month, a Wisconsin grandmother received a surprise birthday parade thanks to her family, who organized it. More than 150 vehicles showed up to wish her well.“I went around the fence line, got on one of the pillars in the water. and stood holding onto the fence screaming for the dog, who responded to my voice and started to swim toward us,” she explained.
When the couple noticed an NYPD harbor unit patrol boat at the ferry dock, they got its attention and crews went out to save the dog.
“It was all perfect timing that we pulled [into the parking lot] at that moment, that the harbor unit was there, and the dog responded to my voice,” Carol noted.
Following the rescue, the NYPD’s Special Ops shared a photo of the wet pup:
While patrolling the #NYC waters a few minutes ago, our #Harbor members spotted this dog frantically trying to keep afloat in Jamaica Bay They quickly pulled the dog from the freezing water, wrapped him up & immediately brought him to a local vet#RuffMorning Updates to follow pic.twitter.com/7iBxplCmTy — NYPD Special Ops (@NYPDSpecialops) January 20, 2021
The ordeal began when Georgia, whom police initially called Tinkerbell, and her family were walking home on the Boardwalk.
“A bike or something went by and startled her,” said Jason Novetsky, who recently adopted the pup with his wife and daughter.
The dog managed to break free of her leash and run away.
Novetsky’s wife, Karen Dublin, posted about their missing pet on Facebook and a few minutes later, she got the call that police had rescued Georgia.A customer who spent $20 at a Colorado bakery left a generous tip of $1,400 along with a note saying, “COVID sucks!”
The customer at Notchtop Bakery was known as one of their regulars named David, who asked how many people were working that day.
“He asked how many servers we have today and how many staff altogether. We had seven people,” said Notchtop owner Nailya Khametvalieva.
Once David paid his bill, his server discovered that he had left a tip of $1,400. The bill also came with instructions to split the money evenly between seven employees.
“In the morning, we were talking, like we need to make this money because we have to pay rent,” server Jayme Johnson said. “It’s $200 to me, but it’s also $200 for my husband. It’s also $200 for my daughters, for things that we needed to make it.”
The bakery shared a picture of the receipt and a photo of the seven employees, with the caption, “Thank you, David, for your generous gift to our staff. Your gift has touched many lives.”A dog in Trabzon, Turkey, has diligently visited the hospital every day since her elderly owner’s admittance, patiently awaiting his return.
Last week, Cemal Senturk was admitted to a medical facility in Trabzon. The elderly man’s condition was not specified, but his dog Boncuk could not have cared less. Boncuk left home the next day. After a brief search, Senturk’s family finally located her sitting outside the entrance of the hospital.
Ever since her beloved owner was hospitalized, this dog walks to the hospital every day and sits outside, waiting to see him 😢 pic.twitter.com/0erjUUH45w — CBS News (@CBSNews) January 21, 2021
While they took her back home, efforts to prevent a return to the hospital were wholly unsuccessful. Every day, Boncuk disappeared again. And every day, she was found carrying out her vigil. Boncuk would peek into the building every time the door opened, checking for some sign of her best friend, always keeping watch. A security guard told Turkish news outlet DHA that “she comes every day around 9 a.m. and waits until nightfall. She doesn’t go in.”
On Wednesday, Boncuk was finally reunited with Senturk in an emotional reunion captured on video, shared by CBS News via Twitter. “She’s very used to me. And I miss her, too, constantly,” Senturk said. Fortunately for them both, the waiting is over — Senturk was discharged later that day, and the two returned safely home.A girl in Clayton, New York, recently used her artistic talents to raise a large amount of money for the American Cancer Society.
When the coronavirus pandemic prevented Olivia Walton from helping her grandparents at their shop, she found another way to assist others for the time being, WWNYTV reported Tuesday.A detective in Irving, Texas, is being praised for surprising a little boy whose bike was recently ruined by an offender.
While Detective Josh Smith worked on a case where a person destroyed the child’s bicycle, he decided something must be done to make things right, according to Fox 4.
Smith made it his mission to get Nick another set of wheels and worked with the nonprofit group, Team Texas for Families, to donate the bike and helmet.
In a tweet Saturday, the Irving Police Department shared a photo of Smith and a fellow officer with Nick, who sat proudly on his orange and blue Hot Wheels bike:
Detective Josh Smith was working a case where the offender destroyed Nick’s bike. Detective Smith worked with Team Texas to see if they could donate a bicycle and helmet for Nick. This morning they made that happen. pic.twitter.com/KeXHqlAipz — Irving Police Dept. (@IrvingPD) January 16, 2021
The department’s mission is to “Deliver exceptional services and promote a high quality of life for residents, visitors and businesses,” its website said.
“Irving will be the model for safe and beautiful neighborhoods; a vibrant economy; and exceptional recreational, cultural and educational opportunities,” its vision statement continued.
Facebook users praised the officer for going the extra mile to replace Nick’s bike and make him smile.
“Precious story! We have great people in the Irving police force. It shows how much they love their work because of the dedication they have to protect and serve!” one person wrote.
“Thanks for your compassion and caring,” another commented.
In December, two police officers in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, donated bicycles to children at a local elementary school, according to Breitbart News.
“Kyle Nation, who has been with the Tuscaloosa Police Department for five years, along with Deputy Chief Severn Sanders of the department, attended Pajama Day at Martin Luther King Jr. Elementary where they surprised 16 kids with new bikes,” the report said.
The department shared photos on its Facebook page of the kids enjoying their wheels:
TPD Officer K.D. Nation purchased bicycles to give as Christmas gifts to kids this year. This morning, Officer Nation… Posted by Tuscaloosa Police Department on Wednesday, December 9, 2020
“We’re proud to have officers like Officer Nation who care so much about the community. We had so much fun seeing the kids choose their new rides!” the post concluded.A seven-year-old boy and an off-duty firefighter saved two people from a house fire Thursday in Delaware.
The fire started shortly after 1:00 p.m. Thursday in Glasgow, Delaware, in the Caravel Hunt neighborhood, the Newark Post reported.
The seven-year-old quickly sprang into action, dialing 911 and saving a sibling from a second-floor bedroom. He also tried to rescue his 91-year-old grandmother but could not do so alone.
That is when off-duty firefighter Larry DuHadaway took over.
DuHadaway, a career firefighter/paramedic in Howard County, Maryland, and a former deputy fire chief with the Christiana Fire Company, was in Glasgow when the fire started, the Delaware News Journal reported.
DuHadaway entered the burning house without protective gear or an oxygen tank, but he pulled the 91-year-old grandmother to safety anyway.
“I got down on the ground, and I could see a shoe, probably about 10 to 15 feet in,” DuHadaway said. “And then I could make out a leg, so I just pulled my sweatshirt over my nose and went in.”
Once DuHadaway carried the woman outside, police and paramedics rendered first aid. She was then taken to the Jefferson University Hospital Burn Center in Philadelphia, where she is being treated for severe burns.
The fire was deemed accidental and was the result of a malfunction in a pellet stove on an enclosed porch.
This is not the first time DuHadaway has sprung into action while off-duty. In 2018, he witnessed a terrible accident on Route 1 where he performed “triage” to help those in the accident. Despite his efforts, five people died in the crash.A blind three-year-old Lab/Shepherd who had his eyes removed is going to a loving family, including a blind veteran.
Louis was brought to a California animal shelter in December 2020 after his previous owners removed his eyes due to an eye infection instead of deciding to treat the infection and then discovered they could not care for a dog anymore.
The dog also got hit by a car in January 2020 and suffered a broken leg that did not heal properly, according to the shelter.
Now, recovering from a broken leg and learning how to roam the world while blind, Louis is going to a family able to give him the love and care he needs, KGTV reported.
His owner, Steve Walker, is a Marine veteran who started to lose his vision at 18 due to the eye disease Retinitis Pigmentosa.
Despite his disability, he has competed in triathlons, Ironman competitions, and marathons.
Walker said he and his wife and daughter did not plan on adopting but were inspired by Louis’s story.
“We were laughing as we were reading on the Internet on how to help out a blind dog, and it was pretty much the same thing as for a blind person,” Walker said.
The family’s house is already outfitted to help Walker and could also help Louis navigate the house safely. Walker said the family had already removed all of the doors in the house, and there is minimal furniture.
“I think he’s going to pick up on that, and I think he’s going to benefit from a lot of the changes we’ve already made to the house. So we’re really excited about seeing him adapt to our home and our family, and seeing him flourish really,” Walker added.
Thanks to the kindness of those who heard Louis’s story, the family’s adoption expenses and one year of veterinarian costs are covered.A disabled Pennsylvania veteran received a roof for his damaged home after a local roofing company reached out to help.
“The city was getting involved, and she was concerned about losing her house,” Laurence Rissler, owner of LR Roofing Systems, told WTAJ.
Rissler said he received a call from the woman and felt inspired to replace her roof.
“The first conversation we had was at least an hour long, and I told my wife that we’re going to figure out a way to help this lady,” says Rissler.
Rissler said the woman’s house was her grandmother’s, and she lived there with her husband while he was still living.
Rissler said her husband also served with the Altoona Police Department.
Rissler searched the community for donors and volunteers who would also feel inspired to give back.
The Altoona Area Business Community was one organization that volunteered to give back by funding some of the project.
“So many times we see that veterans are not really given what they’re due, and sometimes, like in this situation, their home fell into disrepair,” says LaVonne Falbo, president of the Altoona Area Business Community.
The group is also accepting PayPal donations through altoonaareabusinesscommunity@gmail.com to go towards the project.
Thanks to the partnership, the restoration project began Saturday.
Rissler says a small crew of people are helping Saturday, but he is still looking for more volunteers to help on January 23, starting at 8:30 a.m.
This disabled veteran is not the only disabled veteran to receive a refurbished roof. In October, a 76-year-old disabled Vietnam veteran received a roof on his 50th wedding anniversary.A man in Pisgah Forest, North Carolina, is busy refurbishing old cars for neighbors who have no mode of transportation.
“The last thing you want is a single mom stranded somewhere,” said Chris Lewis, who restores the vehicles inside his own garage.
His current project is a 2005 Acura MDX that has 145,000 miles on it, according to WRAL.
Once it is ready to hit the road, the car will go to the Sharing House Wheels to Work program, whose mission is to empower individuals by giving them reliable transportation.
According to the Sharing House website:
Wheels to Work receives donated vehicles no more than 10 years old from community donors. Your well-loved, well-maintained used vehicles make this program work! We work with donors to make the title transfer easy to give to Sharing House with full tax advantage documentations. We then have a gifted volunteer who refurbishes each vehicle to ensure they are road-worthy. People who apply to receive a vehicle must go through a budgeting process and driver background check.
“He makes the magic happen,” Susan Matthews, the organization’s empowerment director, said of Lewis. “Chris is the face of the organization because he meets the people when they want to give a donation.”
“We just feel like this gets people farther ahead by having their own independence,” she continued.
The generous mechanic raced motorcycles and won a national championship in 1982 before he decided to spend his time helping the community.
Over the past nine years, he has refurbished 80 vehicles for the program, including 14 last year.
Lewis said his faith is the reason behind the work he does for others.
“Well, I’m kind of a Matthew 25 guy. So you know, I think we’re supposed to help people,” he commented, adding, “It’s just something I know I need to do.”
Neighbor Sidney Lowe received a 1994 Mercury Villager through Wheels to Work, stating, “It’s been a godsend, it’s really helped me out. Otherwise I would’ve been on foot.”
Sharing Houses’ Facebook page said it is “Transylvania County’s compassionate source for food, clothing and financial assistance for those in need.”Rapper Post Malone is giving away thousands of his sold-out Crocs shoes to healthcare workers in hospitals across the country.
Malone and Crocs joined with the nonprofit Musicians On Call to gift 10,000 pairs of his Duet Max Clog II to caregivers, housekeeping staff, and other medical workers at about 70 facilities, People reported Thursday.
“This gift was made in gratitude of and support for their tireless efforts in battling this pandemic,” the nonprofit said in a statement.
According to its website, Musicians On Call said it brings “live and recorded music to the bedsides of patients in healthcare facilities”:
By delivering live, in-room performances to patients undergoing treatment or unable to leave their beds, we add a dose of joy to life in a healthcare facility. We seek to change the cold, sterile environment in hospital rooms. Musicians On Call believes that all patients, families and caregivers should have access to and benefit from the healing power of live music.Lavonda Wright raised money to buy a car for a young man who walked seven miles to and from his job after school every day.
Lavonda Wright of Cobb County, Georgia, first encountered a teenager named Jayden Sutton when she saw him walking quickly down the sidewalk on Brownsville Road in Powder Springs. Sutton had a full-time job with a seven mile commute, but couldn’t afford to get a car to make it until he’d saved money from the job.
“When I get out of school around 3:30 I will go straight to work. I walk to work and I work six to eight hours and get off and walk straight home,” Sutton told Fox 11 on Thursday. Sutton typically got home from the return trek around midnight, went to sleep, then got up early the next morning for school and started the process over. “I knew if I had to walk to work every day to get a car that’s what I was going to do,” he said. “If I had to walk home then that’s what I was going to do.”
Her son recognized the teenager as they drove past. “He was walking really fast down the road and my son stopped me and tapped me and said I think that’s Jayden,” Wright remembered. She pulled over and offered to drive Sutton to work that day, but knew even then that she had to do something more.
Wright posted Sutton’s story to social media, setting up a GoFundMe to raise money within the community to find him a car. While the campaign raised $7,000, it wasn’t enough. But Wright contacted Nalley Honda dealership in Union City, and the owner agreed to lower the price of one of their vehicles to fit the money they had.
When she finally presented the life-changing vehicle to Sutton, he was overwhelmed. “I just want to say thank you. A million times. You don’t understand how much,” he said, embracing Wright. “I love her for it. I just want to thank her so much. I don’t know how to say thank you.”
But Wright deferred the credit to God: “We aren’t going to lift my name up, we are going to lift His name up because it’s all about Him,” she said. We are in the middle of the pandemic and so many people are focused on what’s being torn down,” she said. Instead, Wright decided to build something new in the life of a young man: Hope.A Florida veteran received a mortgage-free home from the nonprofit organization Operation Finally Home to recognize his eight years of service.
U.S. Marine Sergeant Bradley Thomas got his free home as a thank you for his service by Operation Finally Home in partnership with Lennar Homes, WTLV reported.
Thomas struggled to cope with his physical and mental injuries after being hit with a roadside bomb in 2011.
Only on #GMJ: Sgt. Bradley Thomas is a @USMC. He was injured by a roadside bomb 4 years into his service. He persevered 4 more years until his injuries forced him to medically retire. It wasn't easy returning home in 2015. 6 years later, he's finally coming home… pic.twitter.com/KhLZELaVS5 — Leah Shields (@LeahShieldsNews) January 12, 2021
Now that he has a home, he has a somewhere he can call a safe place for himself and his family.
Thomas was inspired to join the Marines by his father in 2007.
“I always loved the action behind my dad,” Thomas said. “He was always a man of action … I saw what it did for him and I said I want to be a part of that.”
Thomas intended to make it his career, but his career was cut short four years in after being hit by a roadside bomb.
He said that moment changed his life, since he could not do what he used to do.
He struggled with his physical injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a divorce, and financial issues after coming home from his service.
Thomas eventually got a job helping other veterans. He currently works at Wounded Warrior Project, got remarried, began working at Wounded Warrior Project, and started saving money to buy a home for his family, thinking it would be years before he would be able to get a house.
But in November 2020, Operation Finally Home told Thomas that he and his family would receive a custom-built home in Fernandina Beach, Florida, in early 2021.
Thomas called the gift life changing, adding that it would give him more time and money to give back to the community, other veterans, and his nonprofit that helps veterans.
When he finally got to see his home, Thomas and his family noticed an American flag signed by the people who built the home for him.A nine-year-old is being hailed as a hero for saving his younger sister in a carjacking involving two men on Thursday, police said Friday.
The Moody, Alabama, Police Department released a statement Friday saying that a woman was robbed at gunpoint while getting gas for her car by U.S. Highway 411 and I-20.
One of the suspects, identified as Kendarian Toran, 18, of Jackson, Mississippi, hopped out of a parked SUV on the other side of the pump and made his way into the driver’s seat of the woman’s car, the Mississippi Clarion-Ledger reported.
He allegedly pointed a gun at the woman when she attempted to stop him.
The woman’s two children were in the back seat during the incident. The woman’s nine-year-old son got out of the car, ran to the other side, and pulled his five-year-old sister out of the car before the suspects could get away with them in the car.
The police department described the nine-year-old’s act “an incredible act of bravery and composure.”
Chief Thomas Hunt said he would recognize the boy for rescuing his sister at a later date, according to the Facebook post.
Alabama and Mississippi police pursued the two suspects in a brief car chase through Mississippi, before the Rankin County Sheriff’s Office took them into custody.
Police identified Eric White, 23, of Jackson, as the second suspect in the SUV, which was stolen in Jackson the day before the alleged carjacking.
St. Clair County District Attorney Lyle Harmon said the two suspects face armed robbery and vehicle theft charges.
Both men are awaiting extradition at Rankin County Jail.A Culpeper, Virginia, community is rallying around a family who lost everything to a house fire on Wednesday, donating more than $4,000 to a GoFundMe as of Monday afternoon.
Multiple fire departments and first responders showed up around 9:20 p.m. January 6 to the fire that fully engulfed the house, the Culpeper Star-Exponent reported.
The family escaped with their lives and the clothes on their backs, but everything else was destroyed. It is unclear how the fire began.
The Culpeper Police Department immediately organized a donation drive for food, clothes, and personal care items. The items most needed now are grocery items through Walmart and Target gift cards, dining gift cards, and monetary support.
Jolene Sloan, the daughter of one of the victims, organized a GoFundMe page for donations to help the family. As of Monday afternoon, the fundraiser has brought in more than $4,100.
The Culpeper community is not the first Virginia community to organize donations to a family that lost everything to a house fire in recent months.
In Bristow, Virginia, the community helped the Rancourt family recover from a house that totally destroyed their home in December 2020 by donating clothing and food items while also raising money through a GoFundMe account.
The GoFundMe for the family raised $75,278.A Michigan church is celebrating being debt-free after paying off its more than $2 million mortgage in a short amount of time.
“Just 14 years ago, Galilee Baptist Church moved into a new building in Kalamazoo’s Northside neighborhood, and the senior pastor said it’s the community’s support that got them to where they are today: debt-free,” Fox 17 reported last week.
Neighbors are quite familiar with the house of worship that has served them for about 60 years.
“I believe that if we were not here, there would be a huge void being that we are located in this particular section of the Northside,” said Senior Pastor Dr. Michael T. Scott.
“We get a lot of walk-ins, individuals that are in the community that know that we are here, people are hungry, children need pampers, and individuals need financial support,” he added.
When the church changed locations, it gained an expensive mortgage.
“We were looking at 30 years of a total of about $2.5 million, and so we had to really be intentional with making our payments and doubling up with our payments,” the pastor said.
However, the church made its final payment just before the new year which it said was a huge accomplishment during a time when so many are struggling.
Scott praised the congregation for helping them reach the goal so they can continue helping their neighbors.
“A lot of people are going through trials and tribulations, personally and financially, mentally, spiritually, and so I like to believe that the church is something that reaches all of those areas,” he said.
“I would hate to think what it would be like if we were not here,” Scott noted.
On December 31, the church gathered for a “Mortgage Burning Ceremony” outside the building:
“To God be the glory!” one person in attendance said as the document burned.
On what appeared to be his Twitter profile, Scott shared photos of the event, writing, “What a great way to end 2020 tonight by burning the church mortgage and liquidation of all debt $2M”:
What a great way to end 2020 tonight by burning the church mortgage and liquidation of all debt $2M‼️ I’m saying to God be the glory! Let’s celebrate @GBCKazoo family tonight at Watchnight NYE virtual service 11pm EST pic.twitter.com/7NAVbtYP6U — Dr. Michael T Scott, Sr.™️ (@DrMTScott) December 31, 2020
The church is planning a second expansion so it can eventually serve more residents in Kalamazoo.A 12-year-old girl is helping out a homeless man who returned her grandmother’s lost wallet by creating a GoFundMe page that has raised more than $42,000 for him and others in his situation.
The man, Sean Currey, was scrounging for food through a dumpster behind a San Rafael, California, coffee shop on December 10 when he saw a wallet belonging to 80-year-old Evelyn Topper, of Mill Valley, the Washington Post reported.
Currey, who has been homeless on and off over the years, admitted that he thought about using the cards at first, but he ultimately decided to call Topper and give back the wallet.
“Anybody in the position of being homeless and cold and tired and hungry, if they found a credit card, they’re going to think about it,” Currey, 57, told the Post. “But whether you’re going to act on it is two different things.”A little puppy stolen Tuesday night in Pittsburgh has been reunited with its owner, police said.
City Public Works Department workers found the puppy, named Daphne, in Blue Slide Park after a passerby alerted them that the puppy was spotted, WTAE reported.
The public works employees brought her to the Zone 4 police station, and she was later reunited with her owners.
Daphne is home! City of Pittsburgh Department of Public Works employees found the stolen puppy in Blue Slide Park. Zone 4 Commander Daniel Herrmann reunited her with her ecstatic owners! Thank you to the public and the media for spreading the word far and wide! pic.twitter.com/6ZBsU2A9i2 — Pittsburgh Police (@PghPolice) January 6, 2021
The four-month-old mixed breed puppy was stolen Tuesday around 5:50 p.m. in the 2000 block of Beechwood Boulevard, KDKA reported.
Police say the puppy’s owner was taking her for a walk around the Frick Park Environmental Center when an unidentified man stopped to pet the animal.
Police say he then unhooked Daphne’s leash, picked her up, and ran off with the dog when the owner asked for Daphne back.
“I was screaming. I was in the street yelling, ‘Help somebody stole my dog,'” said Debbie Gespass, Daphne’s owner.
The Gespass family said neighbors called the police, some witnesses chased the man, while others gave the police a description of the man.
Sixteen hours later, Daphne was found alone in Blue Slide Park, and a police escort accompanied her home.
“This police officer knocked on my door, and he said, ‘I have something for you,’ and he looked really excited about it, and of course I knew, and she comes bounding out of the van,” said Gespass.
Police have not yet released an update on the man who stole her.An anonymous person in Gallatin, Tennessee, recently gifted thousands of dollars to help numerous local families struggling to pay their utility bills.
During the holidays, a woman calling herself Miss Santa donated the money after seeing a news story about another individual who gave a similar gift to their community, News Channel 5 reported Monday.
She decided to donate the funds after talking with Gallatin Mayor Paige Brown.
“I said, ‘I just saw this cool thing on TV. What do you think?’ Well, immediately she started to get a hold of her department heads to see what the need was. How much the need was,” the woman explained.
Gallatin Public Utilities (GPU) had more than 60 names of residents who had their gas or water switched off and told her it would cost about $7,500 to turn them back on.
However, the amount did not phase her and she donated the money to the city.
“[Mayor Brown] said, most of these were between 50 and 100 dollars. I’m thinking, geez, 50 to 100 dollars and you’re going to have your heat cut off? That’s just crazy. It seemed like the right thing to do,” the woman recalled.
GPU identified the need within a day of her request, but electric in Gallatin took longer. The next week, she gave $10,000 more to restore several families’ power.
“They were either single families or they were on a set income. They probably, lots of people have medical bills now. This COVID crisis has affected a lot of people,” the woman said.
“Our disparity between the haves and the have nots seems to be growing wider and wider all the time,” she noted.
According to the city government’s Facebook page, Mayor Brown praised the generous donor, saying, “Gallatin has a strong history of caring for neighbors and this year has really shown how supportive our residents are of each other.”
“However, a donation this large that impacts so many unsuspecting folks in, is quite extraordinary and definitely touches your heart,” she concluded.An anonymous donor has payed a hat store’s rent through April to help it survive the coronavirus pandemic during the winter months.
Amanda Joyner, the owner of Chef Bizzarro Millinery, in downtown Michigan City, Indiana, thanked the anonymous donor in a tearful video.
“I don’t even know what to say. Someone just paid my rent for my shop, so I could keep making hats there through April,” she said. “Whoever you are, thank you. Thanks, I really appreciate. Seriously, from the bottom of my heart thank you.”
The store sells hand-made hats and quirky headwear to customers worldwide, including attendees of Louisville’s Kentucky Derby, British weddings, and other formal occasions, the NWI Times reported.
Joyner’s collection of hats include fedoras, flight caps, perchers, pillbox hats, and hats that are part of Halloween costumes.
The store has also hosted classes on how to make ugly Christmas sweater headbands and other hats.A South Carolina family says they are being forced to start over after they lost their home with all their personal belongings inside to a fire on New Year’s Day.
Mary Moss and Cody Heithold are both first responders who work in Laurens County. Moss said she first began smelling smoke early Friday morning before the house burst into flames several hours later, WHNS reported.
Moss works in the Animal Control division of the Laurens County Sheriff’s Office, and Heithold works as a police officer in the city of Clinton.
No one was injured in the fire that destroyed their home, but the family is starting from the bottom after losing all of their possessions.
But thanks to the community, the process of rebuilding will go just a little bit faster.
A GoFundMe page started by someone with the Laurens County Sheriff’s Office raised more than $7,000 as of Monday afternoon. A firefighter in Clinton is also letting the family live in a vacant home that he owns until the family can get back on their feet.
“It’s so surprising to see how quickly everybody came together to make sure that we were going to be okay and to quickly get back onto our feet,” said Moss.
Moss says she believes the fire started in her bedroom, adding that the family does not plan on rebuilding where they lived. They instead want to move on and find somewhere else to start over.
Moss and Heithold are not the only ones who lost their home to a fire over the holidays and had the support of the community behind them. A New Jersey community rallied behind the family of an Army veteran who lost their home and two dogs in a fire on Christmas Eve.A New York City bus driver said a Good Samaritan rescued her after she was attacked while working on New Year’s Day.
Charline Alston told the New York Post she was driving her bus north when she noticed a man on East 181st Street running toward the bus and blocking traffic.
The man, whom the police identified as Edward Guerrero, 28, demanded to get on the bus, and when Alston refused to let him on because she was not at a bus stop, he aggressively banged on the doors.
Once Alston, 47, pulled over, Guerrero allegedly smashed her window and started pummeling Alston in the head.
“I was traumatized, I was frightened,” she told the Post. “I never thought that I would come to work on New Year’s Day and be assaulted on a job that I’m supposed to come back home from safely. I was just frightened. I was in shock.”
Fortunately, a Good Samaritan by the name of Yomboue Pierre Bama, 35, came to the rescue by holding Guerrero back until officers arrived to make an arrest.
“I’m not letting you go,” Bama says he told Guerrero. “I won’t let you go today. You better stop.”
Alston says she is very grateful Bama stepped in to protect her, adding that she is recovering from her injuries at home and eventually plans on returning to work.
Guerrero faces misdemeanor assault and criminal mischief charges, the New York Daily News reported.A man in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, is on a mission to provide comforting teddy bears for children staying in local hospitals.
When 51-year-old Noel Schoessow was in fourth grade, he suffered an eye injury then underwent surgery and was in the hospital for a year recovering, according to the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
“I remember those days, and I remember the loneliness,” he said, adding that his family gave him a puppet named Fido that became a source of comfort.
Now, Schoessow is doing the same for hospitalized children.
In 2011, he started the nonprofit Bear Hug Project whose goal is to “provide an anonymous gift of a stuffed animal to each and every child at Christmas,” its website read.
Since its founding, the group has donated more than 3,000 teddy bears to children.
The bears are purchased at the Build-a-Bear Workshop inside Mayfair mall, and this year, the group sent over 500 of the stuffed toys to kids in five local hospitals.
“Knowing that there are many who will benefit from receiving a bear will put a smile on my face that lasts for months,” Schoessow explained.
On December 6, the nonprofit shared photos of volunteers at the workshop getting the toys ready for delivery:
Schoessow is also very passionate about caring for babies in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), the Sentinel article continued.
Volunteer Michael McCormick’s son, Owen, was born at 26 weeks at Waukesha Memorial Hospital and transferred to the NICU following his birth.
“He died after 10 days,” Schoessow recalled. “I feel like I need to do this not only for the kids but for the parents (who have children in the NICU) as well.”
If a baby does not survive, he said the bear serves as a positive memory for the little one’s family.
“I cannot picture what these parents are going through,” Schoessow noted, adding that even if an infant cannot touch the bear, it sits in the background and later goes home with them.
“It is important for kids in the hospital to get a bear for Christmas,” said Schoessow’s daughter, Laken. “It is important to see kids in the hospital smile.”A Somerset, Massachusetts, police officer purchased groceries for two women suspected of shoplifting five days before Christmas.
Officer Matt Lima responded to a call at a local Stop & Shop store where two women with two small children were suspected of not scanning all their groceries in the self-checkout area, according to a press release from the Somerset Police Department.
Once Lima arrived at the grocery store, he talked to one of the women accused of shoplifting and learned that the women did not have the money to buy Christmas dinner because they fell on hard times.
“The woman I talked to, she explained she was working, but the mother of the children was not working and had some other family issues going on and that what she had taken was Christmas dinner for the kids,” Lima told WJAR.
The officer looked over the receipts and found that the women did not purchase anything but food.
WBZ reported that Lima gave the women a no trespassing order at the store but told the employee he would not press criminal charges because all the items not found on the receipt were food items.
Then Lima decided to help the two women instead of punishing them by purchasing a $250 gift card to cover the cost of their Christmas dinner.
“Those girls just reminded me of my girls,” Lima told WBZ. “So if I were in that situation, I would be very grateful if someone could help me, and that’s what I tried to do for them.”
Police Chief George McNeil “personally” praised Lima for his actions, adding that it was a “a true testament of Officer Lima’s great character and decision making.”Hundreds of bags filled with essential goods were loaded out of a U-Haul truck by volunteers to give to abused and neglected kids in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Just under 800 bags were unloaded from the truck by volunteers embodying the spirit of caring for some of the state’s most vulnerable children.
“It is pajamas, toiletries, a backpack, a pillow, blanket, comfort items, food, water and most importantly sometimes is a note of encouragement from another child to the child that’s being rescued,” K.C. Kilpatrick, the founder and executive director of the nonprofit Geaux for Kids, told WVUE.
Kilpatrick said that when most children are taken away from their broken homes, they do not come with much in the way of essentials.
“When kids are rescued, they’re just rescued right then, and they’re coming with the clothes on their back, and they have seconds to get things together,” said Kilpatrick.
She was inspired to start Geaux for Kids after she had an experience with Louisiana’s foster care system where the one and two-year-olds she was fostering arrived with no belongings except a meth pipe enclosed in a Winn Dixie bag.
“I got mad. I got hot mad,” Kilpatrick said.
Not only did she get mad, she decided to permanently adopt the children and start the nonprofit.
The Geaux Bags and its contents cost at least $100 each, and Kilpatrick said the major financial backer for the bags is the Louisiana Commission on Law Enforcement.
Anyone wishing to donate to Geaux Bags can do so at their website.
Kilpatrick is not the only one changing foster kids’ lives for the better. The Prince William Police Department in Virginia decided to give a helping hand this holiday season to foster kids by donating $15,000 in gift cards to 120 children and adults.A Virginia police department decided to give local foster kids a helping hand this holiday season by donating gift cards for 120 children and young adults.
The Prince William Police Department worked together with the Prince William Department of Social Services to get the gift cards out to the foster children, WUSA reported.
The police department was able to donate $15,685 in gift cards to the department of social services.
“Even though there is a difficult situation at the moment, a lot of businesses came forward and wanted to help when they were actually doing extremely well,” said PWCPD Officer Joanne Cathcart.
The Prince William Police Department said it usually participates in its Santa Cops and Santa Ride programs, where police officers go shopping with local kids.
However, those programs had to be put on hold because of the coronavirus pandemic, a department spokesperson said.
“We were encouraged to get gift cards to grocery stores, convenience stores, fast food places, places that would be able to give a handout and help people in need and maybe get some food,” PWCPD Officer Truman Paul said.
The gift card donation challenge also had a competitive spirit this year among the officers, where individual units and squads were encouraged to outdo each other with donations.
“Our unit came in first and it was very good to talk to old units I was on and rally each other,” said PWCPD Officer Adam Gardiner. “But it was all in good fun and we got to do it for a good cause.”
Sometimes the reverse has happened where members of the community have donated gift cards to the police officers.
In April, a ten-year-old donated more than 200 gift cards to Missouri police officers, and in August, Back the Blue rally organizers gave police officers $1,500 in gift cards.A physician’s assistant’s rescue dog offered her fellow colleagues in the health care field some hope and joy and even got the attention of Petco.
Jessica Hoover, who works as a physician’s assistant at Wellstar Kennestone Hospital, said she had witnessed the “burnout” among her colleagues in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.
So when she rescued Cali, a mutt from the nonprofit Lifeline Project, she thought it would help cheer up some of her colleagues in a trying season.
“The emotional support, the happy nature she has, is so lighthearted and such a contrast to the rest of the year,” Hoover told Fox 5 Atlanta.
Cali’s impact on Hoover and her colleagues caught the attention of Petco, who gave Lifeline a $10,000 grant to promote its Holiday Wishes Campaign.
“Animals have the ability to take us out of ourselves and put us in the moment with them and help create joy,” said Karen Hirsch with Lifeline. “I think that’s what is so special about Jessica [Hoover’s] story.”
The grant came at the right time for Lifeline, as there is a greater demand for the nonprofit’s programs and a dearth of fundraising events due to the coronavirus pandemic.
While Lifeline has seen an increase in adoptions in 2020, the organization has also seen an increase in pet owners experiencing financial instability.
The organization fed pets in more than 1,000 struggling homes between March and June alone.
“Receiving this $10,000 grant is really life-saving,” Hirsch said. “It will help us support all of our programs, and it will support our mission to save every life possible.”
Petco will also divide another $20,000 among three other Atlanta-area animal welfare organizations.During a Monday interview with FNC’s “Fox & Friends,” Rep. Kat Cammack (R-FL) slammed the media and Democrats for initially dismissing former President Donald Trump’s theory that COVID-19 leaked from a lab in Wuhan, China.
According to Cammack, the left refused to give Trump’s theory credibility because of their “disdain” for him. She said they politicized everything regarding the pandemic because they did not want Trump to be correct.
“I think it’s pretty incredible that we have even gotten to this point. When the media and this current administration has such a disdain for our former president, President Trump, and they are willing to bend the truth to really fit the narrative that they’re pushing, that says a lot about the current state of affairs,” Cammack argued.
“There was a political agenda from the word ‘go,'” she added. “From the beginning when there was a cover-up in China with the W.H.O. basically toeing the CCP line, promoting that they were doing all they could for containment. They were manipulating data, which, of course, we know was extremely detrimental because, in the early stages of a pandemic, that early data modeling is critical so that the other countries and other entities could be better prepared in combating a virus. But, as we saw, the W.H.O. was complicit in that, so when we pulled out of the W.H.O., and believe me, as much as taxpayer dollars that went into the W.H.O., we expect that Americans and really the world deserves better from the World Health Organization. But we were quick to see the political agenda that was being pushed at the highest level of W.H.O. that were complicit with the CCP in this. But again, you look at everything that has been done. Masks have become political. The vaccines have become political. Everything that should be nonpartisan that should be based and rooted in science and facts has actually turned into a political agenda by the ultra-liberal left. And they are doing this simply because they don’t want President Trump to be right, and that is a fact.”
Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentBreitbart News Editor-in-Chief Alex Marlow’s Breaking the News: Exposing the Establishment Media’s Hidden Deals and Secret Corruption exposes the financial ties between the New York Times and billionaires with an agenda to pass amnesty for illegal aliens in the United States.
In first book, Marlow details the financial connections of the Times‘ shareholders and its agenda-pushing coverage. Specifically, the book notes the timeline where Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helú became a shareholder in the Times while he and the newspaper lobbied lawmakers to pass amnesty for illegal aliens.
An excerpt from Breaking the News reads:
If the establishment had an establishment—and it does—it is the New York Times. And it is crystal clear to honest observers of the Times that their editorial decisions reflect the people in their leadership. … Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helú loaned the New York Times Company $250 million in 2009. Slim doubled his stake to 16.8 percent in 2015, making him the company’s largest shareholder. In 2017, he reduced his stake back to 8 percent. Why would Slim, a telecommunications magnate and one of the world’s richest men (Forbes said he was in fact the richest person alive from 2010 to 2013), get involved in the New York Times? The Times was worth about $1 billion at the time, or roughly one- fiftieth Carlos Slim’s wealth. Is it because he wanted to beef up the copy desk and felt the need to ensure the metro editor got a raise? Or was it, perhaps, to gain influence via what was arguably the world’s most important newspaper? Slim has been a fierce advocate for America to grant amnesty to illegal aliens. The Times has consistently pushed for amnesty since Slim’s arrival. In August 2014, he personally launched a campaign to advance this agenda.
Slim’s initiative to drive mass migration to the U.S. has been so aggressive that in 2014 he encouraged young people in Mexico to flee the country for the U.S. Former President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that allows certain young illegal aliens to remain in the U.S. was heavily promoted by Slim at the time of its inception.
Working with the Catholic Association of Latino Leaders, Slim bankrolled the executive amnesty by helping to pay $645 fees for illegal aliens applying for DACA. Then, in 2017, Slim began funding an effort to get Mexican green card-holders through the U.S. naturalized citizenship process as quickly as possible.
The book also highlights Facebook’s ties to the Times and Slim:
A month later, in September 2014, when Facebook was worth a mere $200 billion (it’s worth about three-quarters of a trillion dollars today), founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg went to Mexico City to deliver a speech at a charity event hosted by Carlos Slim, where he discussed, according to Forbes, reforming the U.S. immigration system. Rebecca van Dyck, then Facebook’s marketing chief, joined the NYT Company board the following year. Connections like these are endless at the Times and an investigative team could spend years turning over every stone, each one revealing potential for corruption. All of this is to say that the paper known for the motto “All the news that’s fit to print” is run in a manner less focused on comprehensiveness and accuracy and appears to be more focused on advancing agendas and vested interests. The New York Times is often used as a weapon for and against causes, usually political or cultural; those interests typically align with the globalist and liberal establishment figures who make up their personnel. The New York Times is, essentially, a weapon. And that weapon is quite powerful.
Since van Dyck’s joining the Times Company’s Board of Directors, Facebook has launched multiple campaigns for amnesty, mass immigration, and increases to the foreign visa worker pipeline to the U.S.
Facebook, along with other tech conglomerates such as Google, Amazon, and Twitter, has been dominating the lobbying efforts behind amnesty legislation this year. Zuckerberg, as well as former President George W. Bush, are among the leading amnesty advocates at the moment.
Breaking the News is now available.
John Binder is a reporter for Breitbart News. Email him at jbinder@breitbart.com. Follow him on Twitter here.Former Democratic National Committee (DNC) chairwoman Donna Brazile has parted ways with Fox News to join ABC News as a contributor, according to the Hill.
“A spokesperson for ABC confirmed to The Hill that Brazile is now a contributor with the network,” the outlet reported Saturday.
The former DNC chairwoman told The Daily Beast in a text message, “When my contract expired, they offered me an additional 2-4 years. But I decided to return to ABC.”
Brazile added that in the past two years, Fox allowed her to appear on ABC News’s Sunday show This Week and said that “all is good” between her and the network.
She made her debut as an ABC contributor on the May 23 broadcast of This Week, according to the Daily Beast article.
Brazile joined the Fox News Channel in March 2019, Breitbart News reported at the time:
In October 2016, Brazile was forced to resign from her role as a CNN contributor amid reports she leaked questions to then-Democrat presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s campaign ahead of a CNN debate and CNN town hall. CNN said in a statement that it was “completely uncomfortable with what we have learned about her interactions with the Clinton campaign while she was a CNN contributor.” Despite the Democrat official’s role at CNN, the network claimed it “never gave Brazile access to any questions, prep material, attendee list, background information or meetings in advance of a town hall or debate.”
On May 23, Brazile claimed on This Week that Republican lawmakers would not investigate the Capitol riot on January 6 because they were “in the grips” of former President Donald Trump.
“But this is an extension of the big lie. It’s the big lie that keeps on, you know, growing that he didn’t — that he didn’t lose the election. He lost the election, and Joe Biden won the election,” she said.
“And because of the big lie, Republicans are afraid to move on. Move on to crafting policies, you know, that they support. And as long as the Republican Party’s in the grips of one man, one man, they will not move forward,” Brazile concluded.Following protests from the radical anti-Israel Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) group, the chancellor and provost of Rutgers University issued an apology for a previous condemnation of antisemitism, promising to be “more sensitive and balanced” in the future.
On Wednesday, amid a worldwide surge in attacks against Jews, the leading New Jersey university’s Chancellor Christopher Molloy and Provost Francine Conway condemned antisemitism, stating they were “saddened by and greatly concerned about the sharp rise in hostile sentiments and anti-Semitic violence in the United States.”
“Recent incidents of hate directed toward Jewish members of our community again remind us of what history has to teach us,” the statement said.
The statement also noted “increasing violence between Israeli forces and Hamas in the Middle East leading to the deaths of children and adults and mass displacement of citizens in the Gaza region and the loss of lives in Israel.”
In response, the school’s pro-Palestinian Students for Justice in Palestine group released a statement on Thursday demanding an apology while blasting the original statement condemning antisemitism and accusing the university of contributing to “racist efforts of zionists to erase Palestinian identity and existence.”
According to the group, the school’s decision to condemn antisemitism “cannot be separated from widespread attempts to conflate antizionism with antisemitism and derail Palestinian voices and activism.”
“The statement released by Chancellor Molloy and Provost Conway thus cannot be interpreted as anything other than a deflection from Rutgers University’s role in financially supporting the Israeli state, and thus its human rights abuses and occupation of Palestine, by direct or indirect means,” the group’s statement adds.
Following pressure from the radical anti-Israel group, the chancellor and provost apologized later that day for the initial statement condemning antisemitism, according to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency.
The school’s second statement, apologizing for the first, promised to “make sure that our communications going forward are much more sensitive and balanced.”
“In hindsight, it is clear to us that the message failed to communicate support for our Palestinian community members,” the apology said. “We sincerely apologize for the hurt that this message has caused.”
The pro-Palestinian group followed up by criticizing “Rutgers University’s complicity in the Israeli occupation of Palestine” and demanding a condemnation of Israel for the “250 Palestinian lives have been lost” at its hands.
The group also charged that the initial condemnation of antisemitism “was unwarranted due to the absence of any publicly reported antisemitic incidents in the Rutgers New Brunswick community that had not already been addressed by the administration.”
The school’s decision to retract its original condemnation of antisemitism was met with outrage online.
“Under pressure, the Rutgers chancellor *apologized* for condemning the surge of anti-Semitic violence,” wrote Sen. Tom Cotton (R-AR).
“How can someone this weak lead a university?” he added.
Under pressure, the Rutgers chancellor *apologized* for condemning the surge of anti-Semitic violence. How can someone this weak lead a university? https://t.co/8pd1nRFOkD — Tom Cotton (@TomCottonAR) May 28, 2021
“This is gross,” wrote Jerusalem Post diplomatic correspondent and senior contributing editor Lahav Harkov. “The message is that the Rutgers’ administration agrees with SJP that antisemitic attacks are justified if the attacker has a problem with Israel.”
This is gross. The message is that the Rutgers' administration agrees with SJP that antisemitic attacks are justified if the attacker has a problem with Israel https://t.co/2gThFELHyD via @jtanews — Lahav Harkov (@LahavHarkov) May 30, 2021
“On the woke left, hating Israel FAR outweighs opposing bigotry,” wrote Boston Globe columnist Jeff Jacoby.
After @RutgersU issued a statement condemning #antisemitism, an anti-Israel group complained. So Rutgers issued a 2nd statement to "sincerely apologize for the hurt" its first message caused. On the woke left, hating Israel FAR outweighs opposing bigotry.https://t.co/e9xh1n93A4 — Jeff Jacoby (@Jeff_Jacoby) May 30, 2021
“You have got to be kidding…,” wrote journalist Miranda Devine.
You have got to be kidding… Rutgers forced to apologize for statement condemning anti-Semitism because it “failed to communicate support for our Palestinian community members.” https://t.co/pJXdrl5aRf — Miranda Devine (@mirandadevine) May 29, 2021
“Insane: Rutgers leaders forced to apologize for statement condemning anti-Semitism,” wrote New York Times bestselling author James Hirsen.
Insane: Rutgers leaders forced to apologize for statement condemning anti-Semitism https://t.co/6IE3cOAXLm — James Hirsen (@thejimjams) May 29, 2021
“Madness,” wrote Toronto-based lawyer and author Warren Kinsella.
Madness. “Rutgers leaders forced to apologize for statement condemning anti-Semitism” https://t.co/AJLy6mBpDh via @nypmetro — Warren Kinsella (@kinsellawarren) May 29, 2021
“Rutgers just gave a green light to antisemitism,” wrote StopAntisemitism.org.
“We call on all donors to stop giving to @RutgersU and all high school students to remove this school from your prospectus lists,” the group added.
Rutgers just gave a green light to antisemitism. 🗣🗣🗣 We call on all donors to stop giving to @RutgersU and all high school students to remove this school from your prospectus lists.https://t.co/TbXQnqpApx https://t.co/OCY744g5nm — StopAntisemitism.org (@StopAntisemites) May 29, 2021
“Yeesh… Anyone heading to the US for higher education, beware!” wrote author Jaideep A. Prabhu.
Rutgers University chancellor apologises for condemning rise in antisemitism: https://t.co/08kZPqfHbV | Yeesh… Anyone heading to the US for higher education, beware! — Jaideep A. Prabhu | ג'יידיפ פרבהו (@orsoraggiante) May 29, 2021
“No, you are NOT hallucinating,” wrote Simone Rodan-Benzaquen, director of American Jewish Committee (AJC) Europe.
No, you are NOT hallucinating. Chancellor of Rutgers University-New Brunswick sent out an email condemning angisemitism and after being criticized sent another email apologising, saying it needed to be more "balanced"🏻‍♀️🏻‍♀️🏻‍♀️ https://t.co/fqJrHTLRuD — Simone Rodan-Benzaquen (@srodan) May 28, 2021
On Saturday, after much backlash, both of the school’s statements began redirecting to a newly improvised one claiming it did not apologize “for standing against anti-Semitism,” while going on to state, “Anti-Semitism, anti-Hinduism, Islamophobia and all forms of racism, intolerance and xenophobia are unacceptable wherever and whenever they occur.”
Students for Justice in Palestine, which is notorious for its anti-Israel crusade on college campuses where the group peddles the radical Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions (BDS) movement, has led anti-Jewish hate campaigns on campuses throughout the U.S. and has affiliations with Islamic terrorist groups, according to an extensive report by the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs (JCPA) think tank.
The group is featured on Israel’s list of six banned U.S.-based BDS-promoting organizations.
Last year, Students for Justice in Palestine’s University of Florida’s chapter posted several hateful messages on social media accusing “Zionist forces” of engaging in an “ethnic cleansing” of Palestinians between 1947 and 1949.
The group previously came under fire after they were accused of hurling antisemitic remarks at a campus guest lecturer from the Israeli Defense Force (IDF).
Follow Joshua Klein on Twitter @JoshuaKlein.ABC News’ Jon Karl said Sunday on “This Week” that even though he thought former President Donald Trump made a “racist appeal talking” regarding China’s connection to COVID-19, some things he said may be true like the coronavirus pandemic likely came from a leak at a lab in China.
Anchor Martha Raddatz said, “I want to turn to COVID. We talked about COVID this week, and travel is up again, and the numbers of COVID cases are way down, but a lot of talk this week about the origin of COVID, again. Tom Cotton especially and many people in the Trump administration said it originated in the lab in Wuhan, China, not with bats. They’re taking a second look at that. Some people have egg on their face, and why does this matter?”
Karl said, “Well, I mean, look, it matters for the same reason we were talking about the January 6 commission. We should find out what happened. This is one of the greatest crises our country has ever faced, and the world has ever faced. We need to know how it started. I think a lot of people have egg on their face. This was an idea that was first put forward by Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State of Donald Trump.”
He added, “Look, some things may be true even if Donald Trump said them. And there was because Donald Trump was saying so much else. It was just out of control. Because he was, you know, making a frankly racist appeal talking about Kung-flu and the China virus, his notion put forward — or no, he said flatly this came from that lab, and it was widely dismissed. But actually, there is some real reason — we don’t know, by the way, we still don’t know, we absolutely don’t know— but now serious people are saying it needs a serious inquiry.”
Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENA Member of Parliament (MP) from Britain’s governing Conservative Party has backed calls for a referendum on defunding the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC).
Jonathan Gullis MP issued the call in the wake of Martin Bashir, a now-former BBC journalist, being found to have used fake bank statements to persuade the late Princess Diana to give what proved to be a highly damaging interview about the Royal Family’s private life to the Panorama programme.
Princess Diana’s eldest son Prince William said that the fake bank statements, which appeared to show that someone was being paid to surveil his mother, and the resulting interview “contributed significantly” to her sense of “fear, paranoia, and isolation” in her final years.
“There is serious concern across the country about the quality, impartiality and relevance of the BBC,” the Tory MP was quoted as saying in a press release from the Defund the BBC campaign.
“The Licence Fee is a considerable amount of many out of the pockets of hardworking Brits and therefore it is perfectly reasonable for people to want to have a vote on whether they want it to continue,” he said.
At present, anyone in Britain who watches live television at home — whether or not it is BBC programming — or uses the BBC’s on-demand iPlayer website is required by law to pay for a TV Licence, or else face fines backed which must be paid on pain of imprisonment.
Prince William Slams Fake News BBC for Diana Interview that ‘Contributed Significantly’ to Her Fears, Isolation https://t.co/vJwliWWZtS — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 21, 2021
“The BBC’s outrageous cover up of Martin Bashir’s deceit has really exposed the BBC for what it is: Arrogant, out of touch and beyond reform,” commented Defund the BBC campaign director Rebecca Ryan.
“The Licence Fee was introduced more than 70 years ago and recent polls show that more than half of Brits think the BBC is bad value.
“It is about time the British people had a say on whether they want to get rid of the Licence Fee.
“The British people voted to leave one bloated, out of touch institution in 2016. I am confident they will vote to leave another,” she added, in reference to the 2016 vote to Leave the European Union.
“Defund the BBC will now focus its efforts on securing and winning a referendum on this important issue.”
BBC Says It Has Flagged Multiple Accounts Sharing Trump Statements to Twitter https://t.co/Om4lWL86Uz — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) May 7, 2021
Follow Jack Montgomery on Twitter: @JackBM ontgomeryCNN anchor Jake Tapper attacked Chris Cuomo on Thursday for advising his brother, Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D-NY), on sexual harassment allegations.
Tapper spoke to the New York Times in which he said of Chris Cuomo’s actions, “I cannot imagine a world in which anybody in journalism thinks that that was appropriate.”
A female on-air talent also told The Daily Beast on May 25 that she was “very disappointed” in CNN for not disciplining Chris Cuomo.
“I think some disciplinary action, at a minimum, was required in this situation,” she said.
Jeff Zucker, President of CNN, issued a statement to explain Chris Cuomo “will not be disciplined” for his failure to uphold journalistic standards.
Columbia School of Journalism professor and New Yorker staff writer Nicholas Lemann said Cuomo’s breach of ethics is “not okay.”
“If you are actively advising a politician in trouble while being an on-air host on a news network, that’s not okay,” said Lemann.
The controversy comes for CNN as a third woman has publicly accused the Governor of sexual misconduct. The CNN anchor said on his show March 1 that he was “aware of what is going on with my brother… And obviously, I cannot cover it because he is my brother.”
.@ChrisCuomo took part in strategy calls advising his brother, the New York governor, on how to respond to sexual harassment allegations https://t.co/1MfTzackbc — Jon Nicosia (@NewsPolitics) May 20, 2021
Chris Cuomo continued to explain, “Now, of course CNN has to cover it. They have covered it extensively and they will continue to do so. I have always cared very deeply about these issues, and profoundly so. I just want to tell you that.”
>> @ChrisCuomo at the top of @CuomoPrimeTime tonight: "Obviously I am aware of what is going on with my brother. And obviously I cannot cover it because he is my brother. Now, of course CNN has to cover it. They have covered it extensively and they will continue to do so." pic.twitter.com/G49mZYTG4D — Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) March 2, 2021
Breitbart News reported March 30 that seven individuals with direct knowledge believe Andrew Cuomo gave preferential coronavirus testing to his immediate family, including his brother, Chris Cuomo.
Due to Andrew Cuomo’s influence, Chris Cuomo reportedly received “attention that appeared to go beyond that of others, receiving multiple visits at their Hamptons home from Department of Health physician Eleanor Adams, according to two people familiar with the visits.”
“The state doctor who administered tests to Chris Cuomo and his family, Eleanor Adams, recently resigned from her government position, the health department confirmed,” the Washington Post reported.Israel’s military chief alleged in private Gaza-based journalists of the Associated Press (AP) drank their morning coffee with members of the Hamas terror group in the building the Israel Defense Forces felled during the recent 11-day war, a new report said.
The 13-story Al Jalaa building that housed the offices of the AP and Al Jazeera was bombed by the Israel Defense Forces because it was housing a Hamas intelligence unit, the IDF said.
Despite international condemnation and a demand by AP to investigate the strike, IDF chief Aviv Kohavi said he had no regrets.
“It justifiably came down,” he told Channel 12 according to a translation of his remarks by The Times of Israel. “I haven’t a gram of regret.”
The IDF said that working members of the press in the building were being used as human shields.
According to the report, Kohavi told a foreign official that whether they were aware of it or not, AP journalists drank their morning coffee alongside Hamas operatives who were working on electronic warfare for the Hamas intelligence unit.
AP released a statement Saturday night refuting the report: “This unsubstantiated allegation attributed to the Israeli military’s chief of staff is patently false. There was not even a cafeteria in the building. Such baseless claims jeopardize the safety of AP journalists.”
AP, it noted, “continues to call for an independent investigation into the destruction of the building housing our Gaza bureau so that the facts are known. As we have said repeatedly, we had no indication of a Hamas presence in the building, nor were we warned of any such possible presence before the airstrike. We do not know what the Israeli evidence shows, and we want to know.”
The New York Times last week reported some high-ranking Israeli officials regret the strike, saying any benefit of destroying Hamas’ electronic equipment was outweighed by the damage caused to Israel’s global image for attacking a press building.
While AP criticized Israel, saying, “We have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building,” a former White House national security official under Obama said the building was long known as a Hamas operational center and that people who worked there knew that.
A former AP editor also said Hamas operated from within the building.
A 2014 report in The Atlantic claimed Hamas operatives had frequently stormed the newspaper’s offices in the building and threatened staff, but that AP never reported the threats.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told CBS’s “Face the Nation” the media building was a “perfectly legitimate target.” He added the appropriate channels had been given the intelligence showing Hamas’ operations in the building. The Biden administration acknowledged it had been provided with intelligence.
The owner of the Al Jalaa tower, Jawad Mehdi, filed a complaint with the International Criminal Court saying the attack constituted a “war crime.” A video of Mehdi made the rounds showing him in a phone conversation with an IDF officer, demanding he postpone the strike another ten minutes. Mehdi said that he had been warned by the IDF an hour in advance to get everyone out of the building. There were no injuries.
Chief prosecutor of the ICC said last week that “crimes” may have been committed during the recent round of conflict between Israel and Hamas, adding to the investigation launched in March into potential war crimes since 2014.Laura Ingraham lauded Breitbart News Editor-in-Chief Alex Marlow’s Breaking the News: Exposing the Establishment Media’s Hidden Deals and Secret Corruption Thursday as a “fabulous” book exposing, among other things, the Chinese government’s influence over American news media outlets.
In an interview with Marlow on her eponymous podcast, Ingraham noted how conflicts of interest revealed in Breaking the News help explain news media mendacity related to the coronavirus.
“Alex, you have been all over this — the conflicts of interest,” Ingraham remarked,” [and] about how China has completely infiltrated American media with dollars, research money, advertising dollars, threats of travel restrictions and so forth … and you uncover this as it relates to the billionaires in this country and their connection.”
She observed Hollywood’s refusal to produce documentaries or other films depicting China’s communist history:
One of the reasons it happens is because we have a media that is not independent — forget objective — not even independent of the CCP [Chinese Communist Party]. We find out that the CCP — China — has spent billions of dollars over the years in advertising in the United States … in publications that desperately need ad dollars. I’m talking Time magazine, some newspapers, magazines like the Atlantic. So they buy their way into the United States, and these journalists become little pieces of putty. Just like Hollywood’s not going to offend China by doing a powerful documentary about what’s happened to the religious minorities in China [or] what’s happened to traditional religious expression. Forget it. They’re not going to do that. They’ll never do that movie, just like they’re never going to do a movie about Mao, a real one. Can you imagine that film about Mao? Sixty million people dead. How many movies have we had about World War II? How about the Great Leap Forward? How about extermination of millions and millions and millions of Chinese? They’re not going to do it. Their silence is bought.
Marlow’s book details China’s procurement of influence across American news media outlets, which Ingraham linked to much of the news media’s deception and suppression of information regarding the coronavirus’s origins and the one-party state’s conduct in response to the outbreak.
Marlow highlighted actor and former professional wrestler John Cena’s recent apology for describing Taiwan as a country as illustrative of the Chinese Communist Party’s financial leverage over America’s news and entertainment industries. He explained how conglomerate ownership of the two industries with business interests in China is at the heart of the industries’ betrayal of truth.
Marlow said of Breaking the News:
I connect that with what’s going on with John Cena. I’m sure you played a clip of John Cena’s obsequiousness to China because he dared call Taiwan a country, which it is. Universal, which owns the Fast and Furious [franchise], is part of NBC-Comcast-Universal. So you’ve got this Fast and Furious movie opening up. You’ve got a new Universal theme park opening up in Beijing last week. The established media doesn’t make that connection. And we’re supposed to be trusted to think that movie stars for Universal Pictures and NBC News are going to treat China — one of the most racist countries on Earth, that interns journalists, that interns Muslims — they’re supposed to be credible when it comes to dealing with this regime? Of course, they’re not. It’s all intertwined. … That’s why we’re never going to get that China movie or documentary. We’re not even going to get a hard-hitting article on China. In the meantime, American media conglomerates just sell out one after the next after the next. Breaking the News illuminates the financial roots of much of the news media’s corruption, Ingraham said.
“Alex, your book is fantastic,” Ingraham concluded. “Everyone, before you think that you understand an issue, and you kind of brush off the concerns that we’re talking about, read this book because you’ll see that when something pops up on your screen as fact, you have to look at who owns it, when they bought it, who’s invested in it, and what their political affiliations [are].”The radical Soros-funded Alliance for Global Justice (AFGJ) is a “fiscal sponsor” of the newly-created Palestine Freedom Fund, a project of the rabid anti-Israel NY4Palestine Coalition which “as a first initiative” has raised nearly $20,000 to fund legal expenses for Palestinian protesters who participated in antisemitic demonstrations that descended into violence against Jews in Midtown Manhattan last week.
The fund is aligned with three supporting radical anti-Israel organizations including the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network, which process the donations of the fund.
A statement on the fund’s site states that Palestinian communities “are under attack,” while asking for assistance “to fight criminalization and support targeted youth!”
“Every day youth and activists for Palestine are targeted for criminalization, surveillance, protest arrests and police brutality,” the site continues, claiming that the fund “works to support bail and legal expenses for Palestinian organizers, activists for Palestine and community members targeted for persecution.”
Our Palestinian communities are under attack. Help us stand together to fight criminalization and support targeted youth! https://t.co/5Y30uRizXk pic.twitter.com/uvunhyU6P5 — NY4Palestine (@Ny4Palestine) May 21, 2021
The fund also notes its aim to fundraise for bail and legal support for Palestinian youth arrested at New York City anti-Israel demonstrations.
According to its site, donations to the Palestine Freedom Fund are processed by the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network through their fiscal sponsor, the Soros-backed nonprofit Alliance for Global Justice (AFGJ), which also aids the fund in various ways.
The site also notes that payments made to the fund will be reflected as a donation to the Soros-backed group instead.
“Please note, your card statement will show this as a donation to Alliance for Global Justice,” it reads.
Terrorist designation
The financial arrangement is crucial for the radical pro-Palestinian Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network to receive funding after Israel officially designated the group a terrorist organization in February due to its association with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), which is branded a terrorist organization in the U.S., Canada, Israel and the European Union.
According to the Israeli National Bureau for Counter Terror Financing, the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network serves as a front for the PFLP terror group abroad and “plays a leading and significant role in the PFLP’s anti-Israel propaganda efforts, fundraising and recruiting activists.”
As a result of its ties to a designated terrorist organization and its funneling of money to it, the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network has been banned from all major payment processing servers as of January 2020.
After Donorbox, Paypal. and Plaid helped cut funding to the group, Mastercard, Visa, and American Express all removed the option to give money to the group after extensive evidence was presented of its ties to the PLFP terrorist organization.
Circumvention of sanctions through the Soros-backed AFGJ
The fiscal sponsorship with AFGJ allows the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network to circumvent the ban, with money donated to the bail fund via the network being processed through AFGJ.
Incorporated in 1998, AFGJ describes itself as a U.S. grassroots progressive movement which struggles “against US militarism” while aiming “for a better, more beautiful world.”
AFGJ tax records show that progressive billionaire philanthropist George Soros has consistently been one of its largest donors through his Open Society Foundation and The Tides Foundation.
Other notable donors include The Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Family Fund and The Ben & Jerry Foundation, the charity associated with the ice cream maker, among other far-left foundations.
According to the Capital Research Center, AFGJ provides fiscal sponsorship services that fund groups that do not have 501(c)(3) nonprofit status from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). As a result, AFGJ serves as a “pass through” entity allowing donors to give to a group that lacks tax-exempt status by donating to AFGJ instead.
Through this mechanism, groups can avoid reporting on their activities to the public and even perform “legally dubious actions” before disappearing with no accountability.
According to its most recent IRS filing, AFGJ’s fiscal sponsorship service’s aim is “to help the progressive movement grow and gain more influence on regional, national, and international levels.”
By providing fiscal sponsorship to groups like the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network, AFGJ claims to be in a “unique position” to “witness and support this movement for liberation,” adding, “We are inspired by their creative responses to protect our people and challenge the structures of injustice.”
AFGJ states it is “proud” of its role though “it doesn’t come without its risks,” noting it has been accused of “being anti-Semitic for sponsoring Palestinian rights organizing.”
It also says it is “willing and able to fight” for its fiscally sponsored programs.
“AFGJ is here to help ensure that the movers and shakers organizing to build a better tomorrow have the structure and tools they need to act,” the group writes.
NY4Palestine Coalition
The radical NY4Palestine coalition, which has been leading many of the New York City protests that have resulted in violence targeting Jews, includes two other groups: Al-Awda: The Palestinian Right to Return Coalition, which “supports the struggle for the liberation of Palestine” against the “racism and discrimination inherent in Zionist ideology,” and “Within Our Lifetime,” which describes itself as “anti-Zionists” who support the right of Palestinians “to resist the zionist occupation by any means necessary [emphasis added].”
“The liberation of Palestine requires the abolition of Zionism,” its site adds.
Since its establishment, Al-Awda has regularly hosted convicted terrorists at its events, while senior members of the group have expressed support for violence against Israelis and have been accused of antisemitism on social media.
Al-Awda has also been banned from payment services.
On Saturday, the coalition groups marched through the streets of Queens, where organizers led various anti-Zionist chants.
Queens rally for Palestine is under way. According to scanners, NYPD's Mobile Field Force and the SRG may be responding. https://t.co/hMMYp7DRxV — PROTEST_NYC (@protest_nyc) May 22, 2021
Last week, nearly two dozen were arrested after pro-Palestinian demonstrators attacked a pro-Israel counter-protest in Times Square. In one clip, a female bystander is burned when demonstrators set off fireworks.
After pro-Palestinian thugs savagely beat a Jewish man, one of the assailants involved — 23-year-old Wasseem Awawdeh — reportedly told prosecutors, “If I could do it again, I would do it again. I have no problem doing it again.”
During the attack, Awawdeh allegedly told the Jewish victim, “F*** Israel, Hamas is going to kill all of you,” and called him a “dirty Jew.”
On Monday, The Algemeiner requested comment from the three groups backing the Palestine Freedom Fund to clarify what the tens of thousands raised online would go toward, though no response had been received.
The radical NY4Palestine Coalition plans to hold a large demonstration on Saturday in Washington, D.C., at the Lincoln Memorial along with over 100 other organizations.
“As the call to the rally notes: ‘We need to go big and bold right now for Palestinian liberation now that a ceasefire has gone into effect. No return to the status quo. It is time for Israeli settler-colonialism, ethnic cleansing, apartheid, military occupation, and blockade to be dismantled now!’ We’re also endorsing the campaign to #SanctionIsrael that will be highlighted at the March!” the coalition announced.California Gov. Gavin Newsom and other state leaders addressed the opening of California’s Task Force to Study and Develop Reparation Proposals for African Americans on Tuesday, stressing the historic importance of the commission.
California entered the union as a free state in in 1850, where slavery was not allowed. Nevertheless, Newsom signed a bill into law last year to study the idea of reparations for slavery for black Americans, using a nine-member commission.
Newsom provided a recorded address, and Attorney General Rob Bonta also addressed the meeting, among others.
A statement on Bonta’s website declares: “The institution of slavery is inextricably woven into the establishment, history, and prosperity of the United States.”
Newsom said that the commission was the outgrowth of the unrest that erupted across the nation a year ago, after the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, at the hands of police. He said that the commission was an opportunity to “move toward a more equal California.”
Secretary of State Shirley Weber said that the topic of reparations in California was relevant because of the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa race massacre in Greenwood, Oklahoma, where a middle-class back community was attacked on June 1, 1921
“We were denied an opportunity to prosper in this nation,” Weber said. “What does it feel like to live in a country that never says, ‘I’m sorry’?” she added.
She concluded that “the racism of this country has created an environment that allows … injustice to occur,” and said that racial injustice had continued, making it necessary for California to set an example.
The nine-member commission is largely African American; there did not appear to be any white or Hispanic members.
California’s Department of Justice is supplying staff resources to assist the commission in its ongoing inquiries.
State Sen. Steven Bradford (D-Gardena) said that California had a moral obligation to provide reparations, even though it was never a slave state, because, he claimed, African Americans were treated as harshly in California as they were in the post-Civil War South.
Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News and the host of Breitbart News Sunday on Sirius XM Patriot on Sunday evenings from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. ET (4 p.m. to 7 p.m. PT). He is the author of the new e-book, We Told You So!: The First 100 Days of Joe Biden’s Radical Presidency. His recent book, RED NOVEMBER, tells the story of the 2020 Democratic presidential primary from a conservative perspective. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.The Biden administration extended its self-imposed deadline to get an “infrastructure” deal with Republicans that may signal trouble for the package.
In interviews, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg created a deadline of Memorial Day to have a bipartisan agreement on a sweeping plan that redefined traditional infrastructure to include such things as healthcare and electric vehicles.
“We know that this is entering a legislative process where we’re going to be hearing from both sides of the aisle, and I think you’ll find the president’s got a very open mind. But time is of the essence,” Buttgieg said in April.
“So we’ll look at these ideas on how to pay for it. We’ll look at ideas on where the investments ought to be, too. But the president is hoping for major progress from Congress before Memorial Day,” he said.
“And we can’t allow this thing to just keep dragging on, because the need is there today.”
As Memorial Day approached and no deal was in sight, Buttigieg pushed out the deadline by a week.
“By the time that they return, which is June 7 just a week from tomorrow, we need a clear direction,” Buttigieg told CNN on Sunday, according to CNBC.
“The President keeps saying, ‘inaction is not an option,’ and time is not unlimited here. The American people expect us to do something.”
Senate Democrats plan to pass a bill in June with or without Republicans.
In May, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) was asked by Axios on HBO if he agreed with Biden aide Steve Ricchetti’s comment that Democrats have “a little more time” to have “broader consultation and dialog” and “There’s more receptivity on the Republican side to having that dialogue, and they also see the potential to reach some common ground here.”
“In general I don’t agree with that,” Sanders responded. “The bottom line is the American people want results.”
He continued, “And frankly, when people got a, you know, $1,400 check or $5,600 check for their family, they didn’t say, ‘Oh, I can’t cash this check because it was done without any Republican votes.’”
Buttigieg told the New York Times Sway podcast last month going the traditional route of “regular order” and committee hearings is something Biden “prefers,” but “our bottom line is something has to get done.”
Republicans have countered Biden’s $2.3 trillion proposal with one valued at $928 billion.
Kyle Olson is a reporter for Breitbart News. He is also host of “The Kyle Olson Show,” syndicated on Michigan radio stations on Saturdays–download full podcast episodes. Follow him on Parler.Amazon is about to enable a new feature on Alexa and Echo devices on June 8 that will create a wireless mesh service, sharing a slice of users’ internet bandwidth with their nearby neighbors. The steps to disable this intrusive new feature from the Masters of the Universe can be found below.
Ars Technica reports that e-commerce and tech giant Amazon is introducing a new feature on June 8 that will turn existing Alexa, Echo, and other devices into a wireless mesh network that can provide nearby neighbors with access to the user’s internet connection.
On June 8, the company will enroll the devices in Amazon Sidewalk, its new wireless mesh service, sharing a part of the user’s internet bandwidth with nearby people. By default, devices including Alexa, Echo, Ring, security cams, outdoor lights, motion sensors, and Tile trackers will be enrolled in the system.
As many people are unlikely to change their default settings, millions of people will likely be automatically added to the program without knowing anything about it. The Amazon webpage for Amazon Sidewalk states that it “is currently only available in the US.”
Amazon has published a white paper detailing the technical operations and service terms that it says will protect the privacy and security of users part of the Sidewalk project. Despite these assurances, security-minded people will want to disable Amazon Sidewalk from there devices. Below are the steps needed to disable the Sidewalk features on Amazon devices:
Open the Alexa app Open More and selecting Settings Select Account Settings Select Amazon Sidewalk Turn Amazon Sidewalk Off
Read more at Ars Technica here.
Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart News covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on Twitter @LucasNolan or contact via secure email at the address lucasnolan@protonmail.comAs the coronavirus pandemic ends and the summer travel season begins, consumers face gas prices surging past $3 a gallon for regular unleaded. Experts say high demand from people eager to get on the road again and oil production increases cause the highest gas prices since 2014.
According to AAA, the current average price is $3.045 a gallon for regular unleaded nationwide. That national average is up 14.3 cents per gallon from a week ago and $1.06 higher than a year ago.
Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis for GasBuddy, released a statement on gas prices.
“With the summer driving season now officially begun, gas prices have clung to a $3 per gallon average on continued strong demand as Americans take to the roads amidst a continued economic recovery,” De Haan said. “Through Sunday, U.S. gasoline demand was very strong over the weekend, with Friday and Sunday both setting new Covid records for gasoline consumption for their respective day of week, according to GasBuddy data.”
“While gasoline demand continues to recover, oil production has only slowly started gaining momentum after a very challenging 2020 forced oil companies to take several steps backward as prices and demand plummeted last year,” De Haan said. “While oil production is now moving in the right direction, we’re in catch up mode to searing hot gasoline demand, and the imbalance has pushed prices up notably.”
“For now, there’s little chance of a backslide in gas prices, but a larger chance that this summer could boast near-record gasoline demand as Americans hit the road, but remain mostly stuck to the U.S. due to overseas travel challenges that persist,” De Haan said.
As Breitbart News reported, in California gas prices at several fuel outlets are much higher with one gas station selling fuel for $6 a gallon:
The Mobil station across from the Beverly Center shopping mall, near Beverly Hills and West Hollywood, was selling regular unleaded gasoline for $5.29 and 9/10 per gallon on Monday evening, and “Super Plus” for $5.99 and 9/10 — self serve, without assistance or a car wash. Those prices were unusually high, even for Los Angeles, where many stations charged between $4 and $5 per gallon over the holiday weekend, and the average is currently about $4.22 per gallon, according to GasBuddy.com.
According to AAA, the highest recorded average price was $4.114 in July 2008.
Follow Penny Starr on Twitter or send news tips to pstarr@breitbart.comThe great American housing reawakening continued to blossom in April, pushing house construction spending higher even as overall construction spending grew more slowly than expected.
Private sector spending on the construction of new single-family homes rose 1.3 percent on in March to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of $396.3 million, the 11th consecutive monthly increase, data from the Commerce Department showed Tuesday. Compared with February of 2020, the last month before the economy was hit by pandemic shutdowns, spending is up 29.8 percent. Compared with a year ago, new house construction spending is up 39.6 percent.
Total construction spending rose just two-tenths of a percentage point, falling short of expectations for three times as much growth. But the prior month was revised up to one percent growth from just two-tenths.
Compared with February 2020, construction spending is up 11.5 percent. But that gain is due entirely to the increase in residential spending. Nonresidential spending is down 1.1 percent over the period.
Government construction spending fell 0.6 percent and is 2.2 percent lower than a year ago. One of the biggest declines percentage-wise was in the category of public safety, which includes police stations and jail cells and declined by 15.2 percent in April. It is down 11.5 percent compared with a year ago.
Private sector nonresidential spending fell 0.5 percent in April from March. It is down 4.8 percent from a year ago and 5.9 percent compared with February of 2020. Spending on construction for factories picked up by four-tenths of a point but remains below prepandemic levels. Office construction spending rose two-tenths and is also below prepandemic levels.
Unlike many other parts of the economy, construction spending was considered an essential service and permitted to operate in many areas. Nonetheless, spending fell nearly 6 percent between its February peak and May trough. Residential construction spending fell by nearly 9.5 percent in those months.
Seasonally adjusted construction #employment in April trailed the February 2020 employment peak level, according to BLS as compared to Total #ConstructionSpending which exceeded spending levels in February 2020. #CensusEconData pic.twitter.com/GxuwVVR62L — U.S. Census Bureau (@uscensusbureau) June 1, 2021
Employment in construction continues to lag prepandemic levels. That could be an indicator that the spending increases are driven in large part by increases in the costs of materials and labor.A major cyberattack has reportedly crippled the world’s largest meat processing company, JBS. The company reports an “organized cybersecurity attack” has severely hampered its operations in the U.S. and Australia.
NBC News reports that thousands of meat workers in Australia are out of work for a second day this week after a cyberattack has crippled the largest meat supplier in the world, JBS. The company is also Australia’s largest meat and food processing company with 47 facilities across the country including abattoirs, feedlots, and meat processing sites. JBS employs around 1,100 people.
JBS USA said in a statement from Greeley, Colorado, on Monday that it was the target of an “organized cybersecurity attack,” affecting some of its servers supporting its North American and Australian IT systems.
The statement said: “The company’s backup servers were not affected and it is actively working with an Incident Response firm to restore its systems as soon as possible.” Australian Agriculture Minister David Littleproud said that the government and Australian Federal Police were working with JBS to resolve the issue and track down those responsible.
Littleproud stated: “Despite the fact that JBS accounts for around 20 percent of our processing production here in Australia, we’re not expecting there to be significant impacts on exports so long as this isn’t a protracted shutdown…We’re also working with JBS right here in Australia to make sure that we can get some limited capacity up and going in the next couple of days. JBS have been very proactive in that.”
Littleproud stated that it was too early to determine whether it was a ransomware attack or who might be responsible for the hack. Australian staff at JSB learned of the hack when they were turned away from their workplace on Monday.
JBS exports around 70 per cent of what it produces in Australia but Australia and New Zealand account for only 4 percent of the company’s global revenue. Several consignments of cattle in Queensland state were canceled at short notice and cattle trucks were returned around due to the attack. “We had to send them up on Sunday afternoon and then we got the message in the morning that they’d have to cancel the train because the meat works was going to be shutting for an indefinite amount of time,” Queensland cattle rancher Colin Baker stated. “We had a wasted day . . . because mustering the cattle, sorting them out and then trucking them up there and then we had to bring them home today and let them all go again,” Baker added.
Lucas Nolan is a reporter for Breitbart News covering issues of free speech and online censorship. Follow him on Twitter @LucasNolan or contact via secure email at the address lucasnolan@protonmail.comPresident Joe Biden plans Tuesday to propose new rules that will award minority-owned businesses 50 percent more contracts, ignoring a fair bidding process to lessen the “racial wealth gap.”
“Under the Biden proposal, the administration would aim to increase the amount of federal contracting dollars given to small disadvantaged business by 50 percent over five years, amounting to an additional $100 billion in funding for those businesses,” the Hill reported.
The report also mentions nearly 10 percent of “federal agencies’ contracting money typically goes to small, disadvantaged businesses in a typical year.” Small, “disadvantaged” businesses includes minority-owned businesses.
The federal government picking winners and losers, based on “disadvantaged” status, the administration says, will “strongly impact lessening the racial wealth gap.”
The specific selection of certain businesses will reportedly extend federal purchasing power to those chosen businesses, giving them a competitive edge with businesses which are not minority owned or “disadvantaged.”
Biden will announce the proposal Tulsa, Oklahoma, to acknowledge the 100th anniversary of the Black Wall Street Massacre.President Joe Biden has exposed a deep ideological split in his administration by promising a tight labor market that would pressure employers to offer higher wages to Americans.
That promise by the 78-year-old Biden pits him against many of his younger appointees who prefer to maximize the immigration of wage-cutting foreign workers, regardless of the economic harm to working Americans.
Homeland secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, for example, has quietly opened numerous side doors in the nation’s immigration law. Those side doors can legally admit an uncapped number of asylum seekers, deported parole recipients, teenage workers, refugees, and undeported illegal migrants.
Biden explained his support for the long-standing and very popular goal of a tight labor market in a May 28 speech:
Rising wages aren’t a bug; they’re a feature. We want to get — we want to get something economists call “full employment.” Instead of workers competing with each other for jobs that are scarce, we want employees to compete with each other to attract wrk. We want the — the companies to compete to attract workers. […] Well, wait until you see what happens when employers have to compete for workers. Companies like McDonald’s, Home Depot, Bank of America, and others — what do they have to do? They have to raise wages to attract workers. That’s the way it’s supposed to be.
A tight labor market also pressures companies to buy labor-saving machinery — for example, robot cow-milkers, farm machinery, and meat-packing gear — that allows Americans to be more productive for themselves and their company’s investors. Biden continued:
But here’s the deal: From 1948 after the war, to 1977 — I think it was 1977 — ’79 — productivity in America grew by 100 percent. We made more things — productivity. You know what the workers’ pay grew? By 100 percent.
A tight labor market also spreads the coastal wealth to all corners of society, according to Biden:
“Full employment” also means more options and opportunities for workers — including Black, Hispanic workers, Amer- — Asian American workers, women — who’ve been left behind in previous economic recoveries when the labor market never tighten- — tightened up enough. Look, this isn’t just good for individual workers, it also makes our economy a whole lot stronger. When American workers have more money to spend, American businesses benefit. We all benefit. Higher wages and more options for workers are a good thing.
“This isn’t just an anodyne campaign promise anyone would make, it’s a direct rejection of core Clinton-Obama views on the economy,” responded J.W. Mason, an economist at John Jay College in New York.
“I can’t remember the last President who so clearly and unequivocally embraced full employment as their economic goal,” tweeted one of Biden’s deputies, Bharat Ramamurti. He works as the deputy director of the National Economic Council.
But the Mayorkas faction in Biden’s administration prefers the rival 1950s claim of a “Nation of Immigrants.”
That claim justifies an endless stream of government-delivered white-collar and blue-collar workers who deflate Americans’ wages and spike their real estate costs. That policy also diverts much wealth from heartland states to the coasts, such as Los Angeles and New York.
Hapless GOP appropriators flounder as they try to quiz DHS Mayorkas on Biden's migration.
They don't understand the migration laws, so they don't see how Mayorkas is using legal loopholes to admit all migrants (some, after a few tries) via side doors.https://t.co/xHgXfRcctz — Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) May 28, 2021
“We have a three-pronged approach,” Biden’s border chief, Alejandro Mayorkas, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), told a Senate hearing on May 13. “Address the root causes [of migration], to build legal pathways [into the U.S.], and to advocate more with the hope that Congress will pass immigration reform,” said Mayorkas, who tweeted April 28 that “immigrant-owned businesses that are the backbone of our communities — and of our country.”
“We’re increasing and improving legal migration,” Tyler Moran, a Mayorkas ally in the White House official, told the Washington Post. “We have put in place a number of policies creating legal pathways to migrate and seek protection, and we see that as a metric of success,” she added.
On May 21, Reuters described one of Mayorkas’s imported workers, a Guatelaman migrant named Nicolas. Under Mayorkas’ watch, Nicolas tried six times to sneak into the United States and each time was returned by Mayorkas to the five-yard line in Mexico instead of to his home 2,000 miles away. But Nicolas’s desperation guided him over Mayorkas’s obstacle course, according to Reuters:
“I thought, ‘I cannot return to Guatemala. I’m going to fight,” Nicolas said, remembering the promise to provide for his three children and wife. He had used her land as collateral to pay for the trip. “If I go back to Guatemala… I’m going to lose everything.” Nicolas spoke on condition of only using his first name because he does not have legal status in the United States. […] Nicolas now lives in Houston and picks up construction jobs outside a Home Depot store, helping him send parts of his $100-a -day wages back home. Every week, his wife makes deposits towards Nicolas’ [$10,000+ smuggling] debt.
Mayorkas has also demolished the Trump-era regulations that protect American graduates from the uncapped inflow of college-trained foreign workers favored by U.S. Fortune 500 companies. The companies are pushing legislation that would allow companies to hire foreign workers with the promise of U. S. citizenship in exchange for 10 years of low-wage, no-complaint work.
Mayorkas’ nomination was strongly supported by Fortune 500 companies and trade groups, including the FWD.us lobby group of West Coast investors. The group was created in 2013 by Mark Zuckerberg and is now funding a variety of groups to push Biden’s administration into accelerating the inflow of foreign consumers, workers, and renters.
The Zuckerberg group has close ties to senior White House officials, including Ron Klain, Biden’s chief of staff.
In April, the group helped reverse a White House decision to stabilize the inflow of refugees in 2021.
The FWD.us lobby group shares allies with the parallel amnesty campaign by former President Goerge W. Bush to restore his “Any Willing Worker” plan. In early May, Bush described how he uses imported H-2B visa workers to keep his tree farm afloat.
Mark Zuckerberg & fellow investors in https://t.co/rMcu0vygjZ seem to have great influence in the WH — but Biden's staff see the PR risks.
So Biden quietly met w/ FWDus' 6 'DACA' illegal migrants in the Oval Office — on Fri for minimal media coverage. https://t.co/uZrgzItk5u — Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) May 19, 2021
In contrast, the tight labor market wage-raises promised by Biden have already been delivered by President Donald Trump’s low-migration policies in 2019 and again in 2021.
The New York Times reported May 30 that federal agencies have “been issuing far fewer immigrant work visas during the pandemic thanks to travel and other restrictions, so employees from abroad who usually fill temporary help, agricultural and seasonal positions are missing from the labor market.”
That labor squeeze has been great for working Americans, the paper reported:
Roller-coaster operators and lemonade slingers at Kennywood amusement park, a Pittsburgh summer staple, won’t have to buy their own uniforms this year. Those with a high school diploma will also earn $13 as a starting wage — up from $9 last year — and new hires are receiving free season passes for themselves and their families. The big pop in pay and perks for Kennywood’s seasonal work force, where nearly half of employees are under 18, echoes what is happening around the country as employers scramble to hire waiters, receptionists and other service workers to satisfy surging demand as the economy reopens. […] “Restaurants up and down Cape Cod have long relied on seasonal workers to prepare lobster rolls, tend bar and bus tables. But it has become hard to fill jobs with fewer workers coming from abroad and rising housing prices keeping domestic seasonal workers away, said Will Moore, a manager at Spanky’s Clam Shack and Seaside Saloon in Hyannis, Mass.
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported May 29:
“It’s a very robust labor demand picture,” said Paul Harrington, director of Drexel University’s Center for Labor Markets and Policy. “I’m seeing a lot of employers offering signing bonuses, and the last time we saw that in the teen labor market was in the 1980s.” As of April, 32.8% of U.S. 16- to 19-year-olds held a job. That’s up from a pandemic-driven low of 20.9% the previous April, and it’s the highest employment level in nearly 13 years. […]
President Donald Trump also shut down visa programs that usually bring in foreign workers to hotels and resorts. “The adult and foreign laborers teens usually compete with for jobs just weren’t out there,” Harrington said. If that continues, he added, “I am confident we are going to get a strong rebound in teen jobs.”
“There are many reasons there is a shortage of workers,” Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said on May 11. “Some of it is because Trump cut off immigration so severely … We have half the number of immigrants that came in,” said Schumer, whose hometown is spending heavily to preserve its population of low-wage, rent-paying, service-worker illegal migrants.
Despite Biden’s preference for a tight labor market, Mayorkas allowed U.S. companies to import an additional 22,000 JH-2B seasonal workers for summer jobs — including jobs at theme parts and coastal resorts.
GW Bush revives his 'Any Willing Worker' plan to eliminate Americans' right to their national labor market.
The Bush & Koch plan matches Zuckerberg's visa-worker plan in Biden's progressive amnesty.
Estb. reporters don't have permission to follow the $https://t.co/a44RhxGw2N — Neil Munro (@NeilMunroDC) May 10, 2021
For many years, a wide variety of pollsters have shown deep and broad opposition to labor migration and the inflow of temporary contract workers into jobs sought by young U.S. graduates. This opposition is multiracial, cross-sex, non-racist, class-based, bipartisan, rational, persistent, and recognizes the solidarity Americans owe to each other.
The voter opposition to elite-backed economic migration coexists with support for legal immigrants and some sympathy for illegal migrants. But only a minority of Americans — mostly leftists — embrace the many skewed polls and articles pushing the 1950’s corporate “Nation of Immigrants” claim.
The deep public opposition to labor migration is built on the widespread recognition that legal and illegal migration moves money away from most Americans’ pocketbooks and families. Migration moves money from employees to employers, from families to investors, from young to old, from children to their parents, from homebuyers to investors, from technology to stoop labor, from red states to blue states, and from the central states to the coastal states such as New York.A group of amateur sleuths on the internet is being credited for much of the work that forced mainstream scientists and the media to acknowledge the possibility of the lab leak theory after months of skepticism and ridicule.
The group dubbed itself DRASTIC, an acronym for Decentralized Radical Autonomous Search Team Investigating COVID-19.
"Without the work done by the DRASTIC team, I don't really know where we would be today with the origins of covid-19," tweeted Alina Chan, a researcher at MIT and Harvard in April.
"Because what they have accomplished collectively is not something scientists can do. It's more similar to intelligence gathering," she added.
For months, members of the team probed the evidence available to test statements from Shi Zhengli, the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology and others who ridiculed the possibility of the lab leak theory.
A feature story in Newsweek documents how DRASTIC unraveled various attempts by the Chinese government and the Wuhan Institute to conceal evidence that supports the theory that the coronavirus could have come from a laboratory leak.
Thanks to DRASTIC, we now know that the Wuhan Institute of Virology had an extensive collection of coronaviruses gathered over many years of foraging in the bat caves, and that many of them—including the closest known relative to the pandemic virus, SARS-CoV-2—came from a mineshaft where three men died from a suspected SARS-like disease in 2012.
We know that the WIV was actively working with these viruses, using inadequate safety protocols, in ways that could have triggered the pandemic, and that the lab and Chinese authorities have gone to great lengths to conceal these activities. We know that the first cases appeared weeks before the outbreak at the Huanan wet market that was once thought to be ground zero.
Among the major investigators of the group was a young man from eastern India who goes by the name The Seeker on social media. He was able to show that information on a database from China's Ministry of Science and Technology proved Wuhan Institute researchers were lying about the death of miners who had died from contracting a disease similar to the coronavirus.
The story shows how a popular but false narrative can coalesce into an article of faith by scientists and the media until independent agents look for clues and connections being ignored by the media and covered up by those responsible.
"Not sure why no one else thought of this before, but I guess no one was looking," said The Seeker after finding a key piece of evidence that was hiding in plain sight.
Here's more about the lab leak theory:Liberal news outlet Vox News got lambasted on social media over a headline proclaiming that they were mystified about the rise of anti-Semitic attacks during the latest war between Israel and Hamas.
The tweet of the Vox article from Zach Beauchamp read, "Violent anti-Semitism spiked in America during the Israel-Hamas war. And we don't know why."
Beauchamp pondered why there seemed to be a rise in violence against Jewish people during the latest war between Israel and Hamas, and claimed that this was a new phenomenon.
"These attacks appear to be linked to the recent flare-up in fighting between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas. In some cases, the perpetrators waved Palestinian flags or shouted pro-Palestinian slogans," he wrote.
Beauchamp also claimed that the Anti-Defamation League was exaggerating their statistics on anti-Semitic violence.
"It might be overstating the current level of anti-Semitic animus. But the upsurge in anti-Semitic assaults linked to anti-Israel sentiment, in particular, seems new and different, and it is not something that typically happens in the US during fighting between Israel and Hamas." he added.
Many on social media pounced on the bizarre claims to mock Vox.
"If only the perpetrators of this violence were carrying signs and flags and screaming at their victims about why they were attacking them, Vox might be able to crack this impenetrable code, figure out this riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma!" joked opinion editor Batya Ungar-Sargon.
"If you don't know why, it's because you don't want to," replied Jerusalem Post editor Lahav Harkov.
"What's striking about normie lefty US thought, particularly re: issues outside the American purview, is this toxic combination of unshakable smugness, neurotic projection, and total ignorance," responded writer Antonio Garcia Martinez.
"I knew which Hamas apologist wrote this before I opened it," replied David Harsanyi of National Review.
"Because those committing the attacks were already unhinged Jew haters. Gaza just offered them the pretext to go out in the streets and beat up on Jews," explained Arsen Ostrovsky, a human rights attorney.
Here's more on the rise of anti-Semitism:President Joe Biden bitterly disappointed some activists after he neglected to mention slavery reparations in a major speech he gave this week on racial violence in America and steps his administration is taking to reduce racial inequities. Biden also privately downplayed expectations on advancing reparations for slavery for black Americans through Congress, according to a report.
On Tuesday, the president gave an address in Tulsa, Oklahoma on the 100th anniversary of the race massacre where hundreds of black Americans were attacked and killed by a white mob in 1921. Biden said the senseless murder of 300 black people in Tulsa's Greenwood district was "an act of hate and domestic terrorism, with a through-line that exists today."
He announced several policy initiatives intended to reduce racial inequity, including investing in minority-owned businesses, regulating the housing market to combat racial discrimination, and urging Congress to pass his American Jobs Plan to spend more than $60 billion on programs designed to create jobs and support infrastructure in communities of color.
But the president omitted any mention of H.R. 40, a Democratic bill that would create a commission to study reparations for slavery, which surprised some Democrats. As a presidential candidate, Biden supported forming a reparations commission and promised to do so if elected president.
But according to Politico, Biden downplayed expectations for such a bill in a private meeting with members of the Congressional Black Caucus.
"He didn't disagree with what we're doing," said Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.). "He did talk about his plate [being] full with trying to get the infrastructure bill passed and that he really wanted to make sure that he could get that through before he took on anything else."
Lawrence told Politico that Biden was concerned H.R. 40 would be held up in the United States Senate, where Senate Democrats would be forced to take a tough vote on a controversial issue and Republican filibuster threats would assuredly prevent the bill from passing.
Many Democrats praised Biden's speech, even with the omission of the reparations issue.
"He called out how through the years there have been members in elected office who were very public about their association or membership with [the] KKK," Rep. Cori Bush (D-Mo.). "He set up the scene in his speech to take us into what was happening at that time. And that was really powerful. I was so glad to hear it."
Rep. Hank Johnson (D-Ga.) called Biden's speech "meaningful" for Tulsa and the country. "Most of America had absolutely zero knowledge of the greatest single atrocity to Black people in this country. For him to use his pulpit to publicize what happened to them has to have been cathartic for them."
Oklahoma state Rep. Regina Goodwin, a descendent of survivors of the Tulsa massacre, was thankful Biden came to address the anniversary of the massacre, even if he didn't mention reparations.
"Look, it was not in the speech, but he was gracious enough to be here. He was gracious enough to take the steps. He was open to the conversation. A lot more than I can say for some folks," she said.
But others expressed displeasure with the president.
"I personally would have liked to hear the word reparations. I think that he was very strategic in the words that he used. He used the word repair," Nehemiah Frank, another descendant and founder of The Black Wall Street Times in Tulsa, told Politico. "If you want to pull the people together, you can't fully help Black people. That's how I feel about it. If you want to make Black folks happy, you're going to piss a lot of Americans off."
Dreisen Heath, a researcher for Human Rights Watch, told Politico she stormed off immediately after Biden's speech because she was frustrated with his neglect to mention reparations.
"This was not a celebration. People are mourning. Every day counts for these survivors. And I think that people just play games with Black people's lives too much. It's not enough to just come in and say words and reiterate the truthful narrative," Heath said.
Heath authored a report last year that said reparations for survivors of the Tulsa massacre should serve as a model for any larger reparations study or program initiated by the federal government.
"This is a huge national [and] global moment. Everybody is looking here. So why not start the process for the precedent? Why not make Tulsa a precedent for reparations nationally? Why not commit to signing H.R. 40 into law? Why not commit to establishing an H.R. 40 reparations commission if the legislative avenues fail?" Heath added.
Biden's private discussion with lawmakers appears to answer Heath's questions. The president wants Congress to put together a bipartisan deal on infrastructure because there's a chance it could actually pass. Reparations are not going to pass the U.S. Senate and haven't yet come up for a vote in the House of Representatives.
Additionally, as Politico notes, results from a poll conducted earlier this year found that only 38% of U.S. voters support forming a commission to study reparations for slavery. While 60% of Democrats may support the commission, the rest of the country still views the issue skeptically and Biden, a career politician, is sensitive to political realities, especially with the upcoming 2022 congressional elections in mind.Liberal news outlet Vox News got lambasted on social media over a headline proclaiming that they were mystified about the rise of anti-Semitic attacks during the latest war between Israel and Hamas.
The tweet of the Vox article from Zach Beauchamp read, "Violent anti-Semitism spiked in America during the Israel-Hamas war. And we don't know why."
Beauchamp pondered why there seemed to be a rise in violence against Jewish people during the latest war between Israel and Hamas, and claimed that this was a new phenomenon.
"These attacks appear to be linked to the recent flare-up in fighting between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas. In some cases, the perpetrators waved Palestinian flags or shouted pro-Palestinian slogans," he wrote.
Beauchamp also claimed that the Anti-Defamation League was exaggerating their statistics on anti-Semitic violence.
"It might be overstating the current level of anti-Semitic animus. But the upsurge in anti-Semitic assaults linked to anti-Israel sentiment, in particular, seems new and different, and it is not something that typically happens in the US during fighting between Israel and Hamas." he added.
Many on social media pounced on the bizarre claims to mock Vox.
"If only the perpetrators of this violence were carrying signs and flags and screaming at their victims about why they were attacking them, Vox might be able to crack this impenetrable code, figure out this riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma!" joked opinion editor Batya Ungar-Sargon.
"If you don't know why, it's because you don't want to," replied Jerusalem Post editor Lahav Harkov.
"What's striking about normie lefty US thought, particularly re: issues outside the American purview, is this toxic combination of unshakable smugness, neurotic projection, and total ignorance," responded writer Antonio Garcia Martinez.
"I knew which Hamas apologist wrote this before I opened it," replied David Harsanyi of National Review.
"Because those committing the attacks were already unhinged Jew haters. Gaza just offered them the pretext to go out in the streets and beat up on Jews," explained Arsen Ostrovsky, a human rights attorney.
Here's more on the rise of anti-Semitism:A group of amateur sleuths on the internet is being credited for much of the work that forced mainstream scientists and the media to acknowledge the possibility of the lab leak theory after months of skepticism and ridicule.
The group dubbed itself DRASTIC, an acronym for Decentralized Radical Autonomous Search Team Investigating COVID-19.
"Without the work done by the DRASTIC team, I don't really know where we would be today with the origins of covid-19," tweeted Alina Chan, a researcher at MIT and Harvard in April.
"Because what they have accomplished collectively is not something scientists can do. It's more similar to intelligence gathering," she added.
For months, members of the team probed the evidence available to test statements from Shi Zhengli, the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology and others who ridiculed the possibility of the lab leak theory.
A feature story in Newsweek documents how DRASTIC unraveled various attempts by the Chinese government and the Wuhan Institute to conceal evidence that supports the theory that the coronavirus could have come from a laboratory leak.
Thanks to DRASTIC, we now know that the Wuhan Institute of Virology had an extensive collection of coronaviruses gathered over many years of foraging in the bat caves, and that many of them—including the closest known relative to the pandemic virus, SARS-CoV-2—came from a mineshaft where three men died from a suspected SARS-like disease in 2012.
We know that the WIV was actively working with these viruses, using inadequate safety protocols, in ways that could have triggered the pandemic, and that the lab and Chinese authorities have gone to great lengths to conceal these activities. We know that the first cases appeared weeks before the outbreak at the Huanan wet market that was once thought to be ground zero.
Among the major investigators of the group was a young man from eastern India who goes by the name The Seeker on social media. He was able to show that information on a database from China's Ministry of Science and Technology proved Wuhan Institute researchers were lying about the death of miners who had died from contracting a disease similar to the coronavirus.
The story shows how a popular but false narrative can coalesce into an article of faith by scientists and the media until independent agents look for clues and connections being ignored by the media and covered up by those responsible.
"Not sure why no one else thought of this before, but I guess no one was looking," said The Seeker after finding a key piece of evidence that was hiding in plain sight.
Here's more about the lab leak theory:On a recent episode of "The Rubin Report," BlazeTV host host Dave Rubin shared the results from a Pew survey that shows over 50% of white, liberal women under the age of 30 reported that a doctor or other healthcare professional had diagnosed them with a mental health condition.
Why are liberal white women reporting more acute stress that leads to higher rates of anxiety and depression? In the video clip below, Dave offered his take on why more than half of young, white, liberal, women seem to be "losing their minds."
Watch the video clip below:
Want more from Dave Rubin?
To enjoy more honest conversations, free speech, and big ideas with Dave Rubin, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Iran's largest warship, the Kharg, sank after catching fire in the early hours Wednesday morning, Sky News reported.
According to the Associated Press, the 679-foot ship sank despite firefighters' valiant efforts to contain the blaze.
What are the details?
The ship, which was stationed in the Gulf of Oman for a training mission, caught fire around 2:25 a.m. Wednesday.
Photos on social media captured the moment sailors were forced to evacuate the ship as it sank near the port of Jask, near the Strait of Hormuz.
"All efforts to save the vessel were unsuccessful and it sank," Iran's semi-official Fars news agency said in a Wednesday statement on the disaster.
Iranian state media have yet to issue an official explanation for the sinking of the massive vessel, but Sky News reported that the sinking took place in an area in which there have been "accusations of attacks on ships owned by archenemies Iran and Israel."
In April, Iranian ship Saviz was reportedly targeted with "limpet mines" while it was in the Red Sea. The outlet noted that both Iran and Israel have blamed the other for cargo ship attacks since February.
Sky News reported, "The sinking is the latest in a number of recent naval disasters for Iran. A missile fired during a training exercise in 2020 mistakenly hit a ship — also near the port of Jask, killing 19 sailors; and in 2018 one of its destroyers sank in the Caspian Sea."
According to the Associated Press, Wednesday's disaster "follows a series of mysterious explosions that began in 2019" and appeared to target commercial ships in the Gulf of Oman.
From the report:
Iran denied that, though U.S. Navy footage showed Revolutionary Guard members removing one unexploded limpet mine from a ship. The attacks came amid heightened tensions between the U.S. and Iran after then-President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew America from Tehran's nuclear deal with world powers. Negotiations on saving the accord continue in Vienna.
In April, an Iranian ship called the MV Saviz believed to be a Guard base and anchored for years in the Red Sea off Yemen was targeted in an attack suspected to have been carried out by Israel. It escalated a yearslong shadow war in the Mideast between the two countries, ranging from strikes in Syria, assaults on ships and attacks on Iran's nuclear program.
State media reported that 400 sailors and trainee cadets on board the vessel evacuated. At least 33 people were injured in connection with the fire and subsequent sinking.
Mike Connell of the Center for Naval Analysis in Arlington, Virginia, said that the Iranian navy's loss is great.
"For the regular Iranian navy, this vessel was very valuable because it gave them reach," Connell told the Associated Press. "That allowed them to conduct operations far afield. They do have other logistics vessels, but the Kharg was kind of the most capable and the largest."House Republicans have begun the first congressional inquiry into the Department of Health and Human Services' apparent failure to review research grants of American taxpayer dollars that funded the bat coronavirus research at a lab in Wuhan, China.
House Judiciary Committee ranking member Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) and Wisconsin Republican Rep. Mike Gallagher on Wednesday sent a letter to HHS senior science adviser David Hassell demanding explanations for why the agency did not review a $600,000 annual five-year grant that was given to the Wuhan Institute of Virology between 2014 and 2019.
The Federalist was the first to report the new investigation.
The letter raises concerns over the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly whether American taxpayers funded "gain of function" research at the Wuhan lab at a time when the federal government had issued a moratorium on such research. Gain of function research involves deliberately manipulating pathogens to make them more transmissible by humans to study ways in which naturally occurring diseases could evolve to threaten us.
With scientists and the media increasingly open to the possibility that the SARS-CoV-2 virus was leaked from the Wuhan lab, the lawmakers want to know why funding for research abroad that may have had a role in the outbreak of the pandemic was not reviewed before it was approved.
"There is mounting evidence to suggest that the COVID-19 pandemic may have originated in the Wuhan Institute of Virology with research on bat coronaviruses partially funded by EcoHealth's grant," the lawmakers wrote, citing a Wall Street Journal report that detailed how three researchers at the Wuhan lab were hospitalized in November 2019 "with symptoms consistent with both COVID-19 and common seasonal illness."
They observed that the timing of these illnesses matches scientific estimates for when SARS-CoV-2 began spreading in Wuhan and that the Wall Street Journal's reporting contradicts the Chinese Communist Party's claim that the first COVID-19 illness was reported on Dec. 8 that year.
"The Trump Administration was rightly concerned enough about the EcoHealth grants that it directed the NIH to terminate funding in April 2020," the Republicans said. "But questions still remain about how the U.S. government could use taxpayer dollars to fund research on dangerous pathogens at the Chinese lab with known safety deficiencies."
The federal government issued a moratorium on funding gain of function research in October 2014. In January 2017, before President Donald Trump was sworn into office, the Obama administration partially lifted the freeze and ordered U.S. agencies to establish review boards to evaluate funding proposals before approving gain of function research.
HHS created the Potential Pandemic Pathogen Care and Oversight, or P3CO, review committee to handle the agency's review process.
Between 2014 and 2019, the U.S. nonprofit organization EcoHealth Alliance received $600,000 in taxpayer funds from the National Institutes of Health as subgrants from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases — led by Dr. Anthony Fauci — and diverted those funds to the Wuhan Institute of Virology to study coronaviruses from Chinese bats.
The Daily Caller reported in April that the P3CO review committee established by HHS did not review the grants to the Wuhan lab.
What this could mean is that gain of function research was funded by the U.S. in violation of the law, but there is disagreement among scientists on whether the research conducted on coronaviruses at the Wuhan lab was gain of function. Under Fauci's leadership, NIAID determined the research in the grant was not gain of function "because it did not involve the enhancement of the pathogenicity or transmissibility of the viruses studied," an NIH spokesperson told the Daily Caller.
In sworn congressional testimony, Fauci claimed the research conducted in Wuhan was not gain of function.
Jordan and Gallagher cite examples of credentialed scientists and academic experts who disagree with Fauci's determination. They request that Hassell answer questions on HHS' failure to review the decision to fund research in Wuhan and inquire about the scope of the board's review powers, asking if it is too limited in Hassell's opinion.
On Wednesday, BuzzFeed News published a massive trove of Dr. Fauci's emails obtained by a Freedom of Information Act request. Emails from February 2020 reported by the Washington Examiner reveal that at the onset of the pandemic, Fauci was aware of potential controversy regarding possible gain of function research at the Wuhan lab.
In an email dated Feb. 1, 2020, Fauci forwarded an an attachment labeled "Baric, Shi et al - Nature medicine - SARS Gain of function.pdf" with the subject line, "IMPORTANT" to NIH Principal Deputy Director Hugh Auchincloss.
"Hugh: It is essential that we speak this AM. Keep your cell phone on. I have a conference call at 7:45 AM with [Health and Human Services Secretary Alex] Azar. It likely will be over at 8:45 AM. Read this paper as well as the e-mail that I will forward to you now. You will have tasks today that must be done," Fauci urgently wrote.
In reply, Auchincloss wrote, "The paper you sent me says the experiments were performed before the gain of function pause but have since been reviewed and approved by NIH. Not sure what that means since Emily is sure that no Coronavirus work [has] gone through the P3 framework."
The Examiner suggests "Emily" may refer to Emily Erbelding, director of the NIH's division of microbiology and infectious diseases, who is named in several other emails.
"She will try to determine if we have any distant ties to this work abroad," Auchincloss continued.
"OK. Stay tuned," Fauci replied.On the heels of a Michigan high school valedictorian being told faith references in her graduation speech are "not appropriate" — and then the principal reversing her position after getting a complaint letter from a law firm — yet another high school in the state decided against carrying out the same move toward censorship after the same law firm complained.
What are the details?
First Liberty Institute sent a Tuesday letter to Michael Wegher — principal of John Glenn High School in Westland — over his attempt to censor the "very Christianized" portion of Savannah Lefler's speech set to be part of senior honors night, which is scheduled next week.
Lefler's original speech notes that philosophies espoused by the likes of Plato and Charles Darwin are "wrong" — and then she declares that, "The purpose of life is to live a life devoted to Christ. Westminster Catechism Number One, 'The Chief Purpose for Which Man is Made is to Glorify God, and to Enjoy Him Forever,'" the letter says.
Wegher told Lefler that her speech needed a "revision" since "we have students and staff who would identify as Jewish, Muslim, Buddhist, Hindi, Sikh, Jehovah's Witnesses, atheist, etc. We must be inclusive and respectful of their beliefs as well," the letter adds.
Pushback
First Liberty's letter informed the principal that "student graduation speeches constitute private speech, not government speech, and private speech is not subject to the Establishment Clause. Contrary to your assertion, Ms. Lefler's statements do not transform into government speech simply because they are delivered in a public school setting or channel."
The law firm told Wegher that his actions constitute "violating students' rights under the Free Speech Clause" and requested that he "allow Ms. Lefler to express her private religious beliefs in her Honors Night speech" by Wednesday.
That was fast
Well, First Liberty said in a news release Wednesday the school's decision was "reversed" and that Lefler would be allowed to deliver she speech in the way she wanted.
The law firm said while the school district's response didn't concede "a legal requirement," it allows a "one-time non-negotiable relinquishment of control" that lets her give her remarks with a disclaimer stating that the speech is not endorsed by the school.
"May God be glorified in the situation," Lefler said in reaction to the decision, First Liberty said. "I'm thankful I will be able to share my faith in Christ with my classmates and pray that this never happens to another student in the future."
But the district doesn't seem too pleased
According to the Christian Post, the letter from the school district's attorney told First Liberty that its legal position was "without any merit whatsoever."
"Nearly half of Ms. Lefler's draft speech was unmoored from any sort of academic or pedagogical interest related to the School District's Honors Convocation. Rather, it was an attempt to proselytize at a school-sponsored event, with the School District's imprimatur," attorney Kevin T. Sutton wrote, according to the outlet.
Sutton's letter added, "Indeed, it is not a speech — it is a sermon," the Christian Post noted.
The outlet added that the draft of Lefler's speech also said, "Seeing that man is completely unable to achieve perfection, God made a way for us to be reconciled to Him through the perfect life of Jesus Christ, who is God in flesh."
It also said, "He not only lived perfectly, but he was killed on a cross and took the punishment that humans deserve. Then he rose from the dead three days later, thus vindicating His holiness and divinity. This allows us to fulfill our purpose in glorifying God because we can now stand before Him blameless if we repent and trust in Christ and His finished work. May His name be praised forever!" the Christian Post said.Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott slammed President Joe Biden on Tuesday over his criticism of the state's recently blocked election security bill, suggesting that the president probably didn't even read the legislation before slandering it.
"I wouldn't be surprised if Biden criticized the Senate bill without even having ever read it," Abbott charged during an interview with The Dallas Morning News. "I bet he doesn't have a clue what's in there."
Abbott said that if he had read it, he would have discovered that the proposed law is more expansive than voting laws in Biden's progressive home state of Delaware.
"The voter law in the state of Texas is far more accommodative and provides far more hours to vote than it does in President Biden's home state of Delaware, where he voted in the last election, where they offer exactly zero early voting days," the governor argued. "If there's any voter suppression taking place, the easier allegation is say that voter suppression has taken place in Delaware, not Texas."
Biden — who notoriously lied about similar legislation passed in Georgia earlier this year — had continued his careless assault on Republican-led state election security measures by taking aim at the new bill under consideration in Texas.
"It's part of an assault on democracy that we've seen far too often this year — and often disproportionately targeting Black and Brown Americans," the president said in a statement about the bill last week. "It's wrong and un-American."
On Tuesday, the president doubled down on his attacks during a speech commemorating the 100-year anniversary of a horrific race massacre in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
"This sacred right [to vote] is under assault ... with an intensity and aggressiveness we have not seen in a long, long time," Biden said. "It is simply un-American. It's not, however, sadly, unprecedented."
The legislation, which was expected to pass in the state, was blocked Monday after Democratic lawmakers staged a walkout from the Senate chambers, effectively killing the legislation by denying quorum.
In response, Abbott threatened to target state lawmakers' salaries, tweeting, "I will veto Article 10 of the budget passed by the legislature ... No pay for those who abandon their responsibilities. Stay tuned."
Republican leaders reportedly vowed in the aftermath of the walkout to push forward with their efforts in a special session of the state legislature.New York City schools have been largely shuttered during the coronavirus pandemic. But now that COVID-19 vaccinations have been OK'd for adolescents, the city's leadership has found a use for the buildings: inoculations.
Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) announced Wednesday during his daily news briefing that the city will begin a pilot program to administer vaccinations to students at public schools, the New York Post reported.
Touting that the move will "open up a world of opportunities," de Blasio revealed that his administration planned to "reach a lot of young people quickly" by making "schools a place where kids can get vaccinated."
"In certain schools, we're going to pilot something very exciting," Hizzoner declared. "We're going to start launching in-school vaccination sites.
"We are going to reach kids everywhere and make kids much, much safer," he continued.
According to the mayor, the city and its health department are teaming with the United Federation of Teachers.
The program will begin in four Bronx public schools and then eventually expand to the other five boroughs.
Did he say the UFT is involved?
Yes, the same massive teachers union that held the city hostage has been tapped to help get shots in kids' arms.
It was just last summer that the UFT declared that teachers would not return to in-school instruction until every student and every staff member was tested for COVID-19, along with a list of other demands.
"Every single person — both adult and child — that is to enter an NYC school must have evidence that they do not have the COVID virus," UFT President Michael Mulgrew said at the time. "New York City must have a rigorous and intensive testing system in place. What happened in March cannot happen again."
Since then, research has shown that schools are not serious vectors for the virus.
Months later, when the vaccine was first being administered to the public, the UFT wanted teachers given inoculation priority before returning to the classrooms. The city obliged, but still it wasn't enough to get schools reopened.
Finally, just last month, de Blasio decided he would no longer cave to the unions and announced that all New York City schools would reopen at the beginning of the new school year and that remote learning would not be an option.Former President Donald Trump's blog has been permanently shut down, according to reports — and those in his inner circle say that the move is a precursor to something even bigger than just a webpage.
Facebook and other social media networks banned the former president from their respective platforms following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, insisting that he was guilty of inciting the violence and spreading election disinformation.
At the time of the ban, the former president reached tens of millions of followers on Twitter, and millions on Facebook alone.
What are the details?
The former president's page on DonaldTrump.com — called "From the Desk of Donald Trump" — launched in May and was designed to communicate with his supporters.
The page now, however, permits users to only submit contact information for updates from Trump's communications team.
In a statement, Trump senior adviser Jason Miller told Blaze Media, that the move was "just auxiliary to the broader efforts we have and are working on."
Miller confirmed to CNBC that the site would not be returning.
"Hoping to have more information on the broader efforts soon, but I do not have a precise awareness of timing," he added.
On Twitter, Amy Tarkanian, former Nevada GOP chair, tweeted about the news, writing, "Perhaps this is a precursor to him joining another social media platform?"
Miller responded, "Yes, actually it is. Stay tuned!"
Ahead of the blog's May release, Miller tweeted, "President Trump's website is a great resource to find his latest statements and highlights from his first term in office, but this is not a new social media platform. We'll have additional information coming on that front in the very near future."
In May, the Wall Street Journal reported that the former president was in discussions with platforms such as CloutHub and FreeSpace to host a new social media-type platform for him and his followers.The Washington Post this week finally produced a major correction to a 15-month-old report that wrongly referred to the coronavirus lab leak theory as a "conspiracy theory" that had already been "debunked."
What are the details?
The report, published in February 2020, detailed remarks made by Republican Sen. Tom Cotton (Ark.) surmising that the coronavirus pandemic may have originated from a lab in Wuhan, China. It was originally headlined, "Tom Cotton keeps repeating a coronavirus conspiracy theory that was already debunked."
Speaking with Fox News' Maria Bartiromo regarding the virus, Cotton had said, "We don't know where it originated, and we have to get to the bottom of that. We also know that just a few miles away from that food market is China's only biosafety level 4 super laboratory that researches human infectious diseases."
"Now, we don't have evidence that this disease originated there," the lawmaker acknowledged. "But because of China's duplicity and dishonesty from the beginning, we need to at least ask the question to see what the evidence says, and China right now is not giving any evidence on that question at all."
Cotton's comments seemed altogether measured and reasonable. But not to the Post, which appeared more interested in keeping to Democratic talking points than engaging the matter with any sort of intellectual curiosity.
But now that the theory has surged back onto the scene and gained admissions of plausibility from President Joe Biden and Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Post saw fit to change its take, altering the headline to say: "Tom Cotton keeps repeating a coronavirus fringe theory that scientists have disputed."
The outlet also issued a correction on the article, stating: "Earlier versions of this story and its headline inaccurately characterized comments by Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) regarding the origins of the coronavirus. The term 'debunked' and The Post's use of 'conspiracy theory' have been removed because, then as now, there was no determination about the origins of the virus."
What else?
But even with its correction, the Post massively downplayed the prominence of the lab leak theory — which is now, according to the president, one of two theories considered "likely" by the U.S. intelligence community.
Yet still the Post called it a "fringe" theory and stressed that "scientists have disputed" it.
The lab leak theory has been espoused for more than a year by conservative and alternative media organizations — including this one — based on mounting circumstantial evidence. Yet since the start of the pandemic, it has been readily dismissed by Democratic politicians and their media counterparts.Volusia County sheriff's deputies were forced to fire on a 14-year-old and a 12-year-old after the two children reportedly opened fire on officers during a botched home robbery.
What are the details?
According to a Wednesday report from WFOR-TV, the two children — reportedly foster children who had run away from Florida United Methodist Children's Home — broke into an empty home Tuesday and discovered its owner possessed an AK-47, a pump shotgun, a handgun, and 200 rounds of ammunition.
In remarks on the incident, Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said that officers began searching for the two because the 12-year-old — identified by WKMG-TV as Travis O'Brien — is insulin-dependent.
"So the deputies in the Deltona area go out looking for this 12-year-old and this 14-year-old because the 12-year-old is insulin-dependent and the 12-year-old, if he doesn't get his medication within four hours, it's going to be a critical medical emergency," Chitwood explained.
WKMG reported that O'Brien, along with the female suspect — identified as 14-year-old Nicole Jackson — broke into an area home as they fled. A neighbor reportedly heard glass breaking and called it in to authorities, who quickly arrived at the home.
When deputies arrived on the scene, the station reported, the youths reportedly began shooting at them with the weapons they'd found inside the unnamed owner's home. The pair, authorities said, were reportedly intent on killing police officers.
"Their conversation was they were going to kill my sergeant. They were coming out to kill cops. They were coming out to kill deputies, that's the conversation," Chitwood said in remarks on the horrifying incident.
Chitwood said that when officers arrived on the scene, they attempted to negotiate with the pair for nearly two hours before they were forced to fire on the pair. During that time, the two were said to have destroyed the homeowner's furniture, toilets, and a tub with a baseball bat while targeting officers with bullets.
"This went on for hours," Chitwood said. "This wasn't a split-second, we exchange gunfire. We were out here from 7:30 to 9 o'clock until we returned fire."
How did the standoff end?
According to reports, the two continually shot at deputies from a variety of vantage points inside the home, including from the home's pool deck, one of its bedrooms, and from the garage. Around 9 p.m., Chitwood said, Jackson reportedly emerged from the home's garage with a pump shotgun and pointed it at deputies.
"[D]espite warnings to drop it, she walked back into the garage, she comes back a second time, and that's when deputies opened fire after taking multiple rounds," Chitwood explained.
Forced to fire back, deputies' bullets struck the girl in the abdomen and arm. The boy reportedly surrendered the AK-47 when he saw that the girl had been hit. No others were hurt in connection with the incident.
“Our deputies did everything they could tonight to de-escalate and they almost lost their lives to a 12-year-old and a 14-year-old," Chitwood said in a statement on the incident. “Where have we gone wrong that 12-year-old and 14-year-old think it's OK to take on law enforcement? What the hell is the Department of Juvenile Justice doing sending these kids to places that can't handle them?"
The girl was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. WKMG reported that she was in stable condition as of Wednesday.
Both children are said to face felony charges of attempted first-degree murder of law enforcement officers and armed burglary.
What did the sheriff have to say?
"My deputies showed more restraint than I'm showing right now because I'm furious that we could be burying somebody tonight," Chitwood said. "They took multiple, multiple rounds. ... And I know for a fact one banana clip was empty from the AK-47. I know from the radio transmissions that a 12-year-old opened fire on us. I know that the 14-year-old opened fire on us with a shotgun, and then walked out and threatened one of my sergeants and told him she was going to kill him. And we didn't return fire. But after she came out of the garage, hey. There was nothing left that we could do. We had to do what we had to do."
Chitwood also said that the Florida United Methodist Children's Home is ill-equipped to deal with such children and pointed out that over the last year, police were called to the home at least 289 times — including for an incident in which a security guard was beaten to death.
He added, "I could not be prouder of the way my deputies acted. They went above and beyond for what they did. And also, I'll know tonight I'll drop down on my hands and knees and pray that I'm not going to somebody's home, one of my deputies' homes, and telling them that they were killed in the line of duty, and killed by a 12-year-old or a 14-year-old. This is unbelievable."An Arizona public school principal issued an apology after calling parents "whackos" and "pushy" for contesting critical race theory, Young America's Foundation reported.
What are the details?
Through a Freedom of Information Act request, the outlet said it obtained internal emails penned by Desert Valley Elementary School Principal Tonja Neve that targeted nearly dozen parents who spoke at a Dec. 10 school board meeting in opposition to a proposed curriculum that would promote elements of critical race theory.
One parent who spoke during the meeting asked the district to "stop diluting student education with politically correct, feel-good propaganda."
Another parent said, "Before the governing school board today is a vote for a new curriculum that appears well-intentioned, appealing, even empathetic. But in actuality it further divides us. ... It's absurd. ... You cannot cure racism with more racism."
Parents Stand Up To Proposed CRT Curriculum at School Board Meeting youtu.be
What did the principal say?
"That board meeting was ridiculous," Neve wrote in one email dated Feb. 1, YAF said. "I'm sick of us giving these whackos a platform to spread propaganda without making any correction statements."
Image source: Young America's Foundation, used by permission
The outlet also said Neve conferred with Jennifer Mundy, whom YAF said is "one of the architects of the new proposed curriculum," in another Feb. 1 email on how they could "quiet" the "pushy voices" of dissenting parents through a court ruling that "reinforces the power of principals to set boundaries in parent-school communication."
Image source: Young America's Foundation, used by permission
What the the district and the principal have to say?
A Peoria Unified School District spokeswoman told YAF that the district wasn't aware of Neve's "name calling" and followed up with the principal.
The outlet said Neve offered the following statement: "My comments were unprofessional, and I apologize for that ... my comments were in regards to audience members who were coming to our board and calling teachers out by name and misconstruing and devaluing the hard work they do. My comment was made in the heat of the moment and in defense of my profession and colleagues."
She added that she takes "responsibility for what I did wrong," YAF reported.
Anything else?
Turns out Neve was announced in March as the new principal of Main Street School in Exeter, New Hampshire, and that she and her family will move there before she begins her duties July 1.
Here's another video of a school board meeting with longer and more complete public comments:A Democratic dark-money group with ties to Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) reportedly paid for deceptive attack ads that aimed to depress Republican voter turnout in the 2018 midterm elections, according to records reviewed by Axios.
Then-Republican Senate candidates Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) and Mike Braun (R-Ind.) as well as then-Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) and now-Rep. Matt Rosendale (R-Mont.) were targeted with attack ads that hit them from the right, falsely accusing them of holding liberal positions on key issues important to conservatives.
The ads were purchased by a nonprofit group called the Coalition for a Safe and Secure America. Tax records obtained by Axios reporter Lachlan Markay reveal that CSSA received a majority of its funding from Majority Forward, a nonprofit linked to the Senate Majority PAC, a super PAC that works on behalf of Senate Democrats.
In 2018, Majority Forward made a $2.7 million donation to CSSA, which was more than half of the $4 million CSSA raised that year. CSSA then turned that money around to buy direct mail and digital advertising campaigns attacking Republicans in competitive Senate races.
The digital ads ran on Facebook pages specifically tied to the states where each candidate was running for Senate. They accused Republicans of being weak on certain conservative issues.
Facebook users were told that Hawley, for example, "sides with Washington liberals against gun owners" and was a "pro-government gun control, career politician."
Another ad that ran in Indiana accused Braun of wanting to raise taxes.
Some of the ads that CSSA ran encouraged conservatives to support independent or Libertarian Party candidates. These ads were timed to coincide with the general election, not Republican primaries, showing how Democrats wanted to depress voter turnout for Republican candidates to win Senate races.
Incumbent Sen. Dean Heller lost his bid for re-election that year and Matt Rosendale failed to unseat Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), though he was later elected to the House of Representatives in 2020.
"Laws allowing nonprofits to engage in limited political activity permitted Majority Forward to finance these ads in a way that made it impossible to trace the money until years after the elections at issue," Markay reported.
Several Senate Democrats have in the past openly opposed so-called dark-money groups spending money raised from anonymous donors for political purposes. Yet, NBC News reported last year that Democratic-aligned dark-money groups outspent Republican groups for the first time ever in 2018.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) revealed Tuesday exactly where the NCAA and "woke corporations" can shove their money and events if they don't like Florida's effort to protect girl's sports from transgender athletes.
What is the background?
On Tuesday, DeSantis signed into law the "Fairness in Women's Sports Act," which prohibits biological males who identify as transgender females from competing on female sports teams, both in high school and at the collegiate level.
The purpose of the law, according to DeSantis, is to protect the integrity of women's sports.
"The bill that we're doing today will ensure fairness for women athletes for years to come in the state of Florida," DeSantis said. "It says that athletic teams or sports that are designated for females are open to females. And we're going to go based off biology."
How did DeSantis respond to corporate pressure?
Speaking with Fox News host Tucker Carlson, DeSantis said he called the bluff of organizations like the NCAA.
The NCAA, the sanctioning body for most collegiate athletics, threatened to withdraw events from states that pass laws preventing biological males who identify as transgender females from competing in women's organized sports.
Recalling his response to the NCAA's threats, DeSantis made it clear the pressure would not work. "To hell with these events," DeSantis said.
"I remember the NCAA put out a statement saying any state that enacts this, we're not going to hold events there. So I called the speaker of the House in Florida and I said, 'Did you hear what they said?' And he's like, 'Yeah.' I said, 'We definitely got to get this done.' You can't be cowed by these organizations, or particularly by woke corporations, from doing the right thing," DeSantis explained.
The Republican governor said protecting women's athletics is worth the cost of losing NCAA events.
"We have to protect our girls. It is discriminatory to force them to compete against biological males," DeSantis said. "If the price of having a tournament is that I have to deny equal opportunity to hundreds of thousands of young girl and women athletes throughout Florida, I am much more willing to stand with the girls. And to hell with these events."
"If corporations want to come in and try to bully us around, they are going to go nowhere. It's going to be like hitting their head against a brick wall," he added.
What has the NCAA said?
The NCAA has not yet responded to Florida's new law or DeSantis' remarks.
However, as the New York Times noted, the NCAA's statement in April failed to explicitly pledge to pull events from states that enact laws not favorable to LGBT activists, suggesting the NCAA's woke appeasement is all bark and no bite.
In fact, the NCAA's failure to act has enraged LGBT advocacy groups, like the Human Rights Campaign.
HRC president Alphonso David said recently:
The NCAA should be ashamed of themselves for violating their own policy by choosing to hold championships in states that are not healthy, safe, or free from discrimination for their athletes. It also undermines their commitment to transgender participation in NCAA events, for which they have had an inclusive policy for years. While we have remained hopeful about the NCAA stepping up to the plate and taking action like they have done in the past, they are willfully ignoring that commitment this time, despite repeated attempts by the Human Rights Campaign and others to communicate the harsh and harmful negative impacts of this legislation, which is not just pending but enacted into law in seven states, with South Dakota also creating two Executive Orders to similar discriminatory affect. Their words will not stop discrimination, only actions to deliver real consequences to states that dare to discriminate. The NCAA must face scrutiny and public pressure to do the right thing.
Indeed, the NCAA even recently selected the University of Florida, located in Gainesville, as host of a regional tournament for NCAA baseball.UFC star Colby Covington hit out at "piece of crap" NBA heavyweight LeBron James during a recent podcast interview with Steve Bannon, eviscerating the Los Angeles Lakers star for his hypocrisy.
What are the details?
During an interview on "Bannon's War Room," Covington said that he refuses to be silenced when it comes to speaking up on what he believes are slights to America and her heroes.
“The biggest thing is that I'm in the UFC, so I'm an independent contractor," Covington said. "I don't have to bow down to anybody. No one is going to tell me how I'm going to think, or tell me what I'm going to do. I don't have a commissioner breathing down my neck saying 'Hey. If you don't say this or run with this narrative then we're going to cut you or take away your endorsements.' So, thankfully in the UFC I'm able to speak my voice."
The outspoken conservative UFC fighter said that he sees nothing but "hypocrisy" from James and the rest of the NBA, which he said bows down to China despite its human rights atrocities.
“I just see all the hypocrisy from LeBron. He claims to be about social justice but he won't say 'Free Hong Kong.' He won't talk about the Uyghurs that are locked up in concentration camps in China," Covington added. “He won't talk about all the women that he's profiting off of in his Chinese sweatshops that are making all his shoes — for dollars — that he's coming over to America and selling them for hundreds and profiting millions off of here in America."
Covington explained that he felt it was his duty to speak up against James and what he indicates is virtue-signaling.
“I just wanted to call a spade a spade. I wasn't going to let him dupe the people and make the people think he's a social justice warrior and he's on this pedestal," he insisted. “No, LeBron James is not on a pedestal. That guy is a piece of crap. He's a piece of garbage. He uses that school that he's funding as a tax write off and then he wants to claim that he's some good guy.
"No, he's not a good guy, man. All he cares about is lining his own pockets and bowing down to China," Covington continued. "The real heroes in this country are the heroes of law enforcement, are the heroes in military. Those are the people that are protecting our freedoms and fighting for us everyday and sacrificing the ultimate sacrifice — their lives to keep us free."
(H/T: The Daily Wire)A video posted on social media by a black father and his young daughter dismissing critical race theory and encouraging others to respect one another regardless of their race has garnered more than 1 million views online.
The viral video, first posted by Kory Yeshua on his TikTok channel, has drawn viral interest for its lighthearted yet pointed rebuke of critical race theory, an ideology which re-examines society through a racial lens and presumes that race is a constructed concept used primarily to exploit people of color. Proponents of the ideology largely espouse that America and its foundational institutions are inherently racist.
In the video, Yeshua is seen sitting with his daughter and telling her that she "can be anything in this world" that she wants to be.
"Yeah, and it doesn't matter if you're black or white or any color," his daughter responds with a smile.
"How we treat people is based on who they are and not what color they are," Yeshua goes on to say, his daughter adding, "and if they're nice and smart."
"See, this is how children think right here," Yeshua says with a smile before noting, "Critical race theory wants to end that, [but] not with my children, it's not gonna happen."
"My baby is going to know that no matter what she wants to be in life, all she has to do is work hard and she can become that," he goes on to say.
His daughter then jumps in, exclaiming: "Work hard! Even if you don't know anyone, you can make a friend."
After smiling and laughing at his daughter's comment, Yeshua adds, "Yeah, you can make friends no matter what color they are. So we need to stop CRT point-blank. Period. Children do not see skin color, man, they love everybody."
The video was posted on Yeshua's TikTok account on May 19 and has garnered more than 20,000 views on the platform. Yeshua's channel, which boasts over 270,000 followers, features hundreds of videos of the commentator promoting conservative values and criticizing leftist movements such as Black Lives Matter.
Then on Tuesday, conservative filmmaker Robby Starbuck posted the video on Twitter with the caption, "One of the best videos opposing Critical Race Theory that you'll ever see." The video caught fire shortly after Starbuck's posting and is now rapidly circulating on the internet.
Critical race theory has become a hot-button political issue in America in recent months as school boards and educational institutions across the country have moved to implement the ideology into curricula.
That movement has prompted dozens of Republican legislatures to advance measures banning critical race theory and other similar teachings from public school classrooms.The man in charge of Google's diversity strategy is facing heavy criticism for anti-Semitic comments he made in a 2007 blog post about Israel's military actions in Gaza and Lebanon.
Kamau Bobb, Google's global lead for diversity strategy and research, wrote that Jews have an "insatiable appetite for war" and an "insensitivity to the suffering [of] others" in the blog post, which was surfaced by the Washington Free Beacon on Tuesday. The post, titled "If I Were A Jew," expressed what Bobb, who is not Jewish, believes Jewish people should think and feel about Israel's conflict with the Palestinians.
"If I were a Jew I would be concerned about my insatiable appetite for war and killing in defense of myself," he wrote on Nov. 30, 2007, on his personal website. "Self defense is undoubtedly an instinct, but I would be afraid of my increasing insensitivity to the suffering [of] others. My greatest torment would be that I've misinterpreted the identity offered by my history and transposed spiritual and human compassion with self righteous impunity."
Bobb, who at the time was a research associate in technology at Georgia Tech, blasted "fundamentalist Jewish extremists" and the state of Israel for military actions taken during the nation's 2006 war with Lebanon.
"If I were a Jew today, my sensibilities would be tormented," he wrote. "I would find it increasingly difficult to reconcile the long cycles of oppression that Jewish people have endured and the insatiable appetite for vengeful violence that Israel, my homeland, has now acquired."
He said that Jewish experience with the Holocaust ought to "give rise to sympathy and compassion among the oppressed."
"I don't know how I would reconcile that identity with the behavior of fundamentalist Jewish extremists or of Israel as a nation. The details would confuse me. I wouldn't understand those who suggest that bombing Lebanon, slaughtering Lebanese people and largely destroying Beirut in retaliation for the capture of a few soldiers is justified," he wrote.
"I wouldn't understand the notion of collective punishment, cutting off gas, electricity and water from residents in Gaza because they are attacking Israel who is fighting against them. It would be unconscionable to me to watch Israeli tanks donning the Star of David rumbling through Ramallah destroying buildings and breaking the glass," he continued.
Bobb also wrote that the memory of Kristallnacht should cause Jews to reject violence but instead he said they have embraced it.
"My reflections on Kristallnacht would lead me to feel that these are precisely the human sentiments that I as Jew would understand; that I ought to understand and feel compelled to help alleviate," he wrote. "It cannot be that the sum total of a history of suffering and slaughter places such a premium on my identity that I would be willing to damn others in defense of it."
Activists that oppose anti-Semitism criticized Bobb's blog post after the Free Beacon published its story.
"I searched for 'antisemitism' and 'hypocrisy'. Here's what I found. Google Diversity Head @kamaubobb Said Jews Have 'Insatiable Appetite for War'", Stand With Us Executive Director Michael Dickson wrote on Twitter, sharing the Free Beacon's article.
"Did @Google Google him? He's not fit for this post," he added.
In follow-up tweets, Dickson said Bobb's blog post "makes revolting, and antisemitic, comparisons between Nazi actions and that of the world's only Jewish country. He portrays Jews as bloodthirsty."
"All of this begs the question whether (1) @Google did due diligence when selecting @kamaubobb for the sensitive position of global Google DEI (diversity, equity and inclusion) Director and (2) whether he should remain in these positions," Dickson wrote.
The Simon Wiesenthal Center, a global Jewish human rights organization, called on Google to fire Bobb.
Separately, StopAntisemitism.org quoted from Bobb's blog post and demanded to know, "How is the obscene, antisemitic bigot still employed [at Google]?"
Google and Bobb did not immediately respond to a Free Beacon request for comment.Perhaps it was the American flag placed on a steel cable at a Central Connecticut State University construction site in honor of Memorial Day that attracted attention.
Because even though the loop at the end of the steel cable was clearly part of the site's crane mechanism, it triggered a few folks.
Image source: WTIC-TV video screenshot
What are the details?
"Regardless of what someone else says about that, what I see, as a black man? That's a noose. Period," Ronald Davis, president of the New Britain NAACP, told WTIC-TV. "No ifs, ands, or buts about it. Take it down."
Community organizer Mimi Gonzalez told the station, "We have to think about intention versus impact. If that's not the intention, then think about the impact you're having on the community."
What did the college have to say?
Sal Cintorino, CCSU's chief operating officer, added to WTIC that "their perception is mine as well, and it's all of ours. We want to be respectful and understand when we look at that from afar it's concerning. You can certainly perceive that as looking like a noose, and so even though it's a loop hook, and it's a steel cable, we're gonna lower it and we're gonna remove it."
The university said it contacted the construction company, and the cable would be taken down as soon as possible, the station reported.
WTIC also noted recent discoveries of nooses at an Amazon construction site in Windsor — just 20 minutes northeast of New Britain — as adding to the tension surrounding the construction site's cable loop.
"We understand this is a very concerning image, especially in light of the recent issues at the Amazon construction site," CCSU President Zulma Toro said a statement, the station reported. "We have been in contact with the construction company and demanded that the cable be lowered tonight. We have a team on-site tonight monitoring the situation."
'It's not a rope'
A WTIC reporter conducted an on-camera interview about the controversy with John Tully, the school's interim vice president of student affairs — and the reporter twice referred to the cable as a "rope."
Perhaps realizing the incorrect perception might add fuel to the fire, Tully replied by saying, "First of all, it's not a rope; it's part of the steel cable, which is part of the crane operation ... that is used to create the parking structure" that's the focus of the construction project.
Image source: WTIC-TV video screenshot
But Tully still added to the station, "Even so, the perception of its noose-like appearance is concerning. We were speaking to people last night who certainly felt some pain. We feel that pain. ... and we're working diligently to get it down."
(H/T: Campus Reform)A central figure in bat research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, who leads a nonprofit with close ties to the bio lab, personally thanked Dr. Anthony Fauci last April after he publicly dismissed the possibility that COVID-19 escaped from the Wuhan lab.
The revelation was revealed in the 3,200 emails obtained by BuzzFeed News as part of a Freedom of Information Act, which sought Fauci's emails.
News that people close to research at the Wuhan lab saw Fauci's dismissal as praiseworthy comes as the Wuhan lab leak theory — once dismissed as a debunked conspiracy theory despite a lack of evidence disproving the possibility — gains significant traction.
What are the details?
The email shows that EcoHealth Alliance President Dr. Peter Daszak messaged Fauci on April 18, 2020, to thank him for saying at a presidential press briefing the day prior that evidence showed the pandemic's origins were "totally consistent" with a virus jumping from an infected animal to humans.
EcoHealth Alliance is the same nonprofit that was given taxpayer money by the National Institutes of Health to send to the Wuhan lab for the purposes of studying bat coronavirus before the pandemic.
"I just wanted to say a personal thank you on behalf of our staff and collaborators, for publicly standing up and stating that the scientific evidence supports a natural origin for COVID-19 from a bat-to-human spillover, not a lab release from the Wuhan Institute of Virology," Daszak wrote in the email.
"From my perspective, your comments are brave, and coming from your trusted voice, will help dispel the myths being spun around the virus' origins," he added.
Daszak also barked about Fox News reporters inquiring about the grant and research.
Fauci responded, "Peter: Many thanks for your kind note. Best regards, Tony."
A large section of Daszak's email, however, was redacted under a FOIA exception that permits withholding of "records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that production of such law enforcement records or information ... could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings."
Interestingly, Daszak's group also organized a letter last February, which was signed by more than two dozen prominent public health officials, to "strongly condemn conspiracy theories suggesting that COVID-19 does not have a natural origin."
That letter, which was published in The Lancet, generated significant media attention, and ultimately drove institutionalized dismissal of the Wuhan lab leak theory.
Peter Daszak in Wuhan to investigate the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic. (HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP via Getty Images)
Compounding apparent conflicts of interest, Daszak was also a member of the World Health Organization investigative team that entered Wuhan in January to conduct an investigation into the pandemic's origin.
To the shock of no one, that investigation, which was tightly controlled by Beijing, affirmed China's assertion that COVID-19 emerged naturally, not as the result of any work being conducted at the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
In fact, Daszak admitted in March the WHO investigative team simply accepted what China told them about COVID-19 and the immediate aftermath of the virus outbreak.Critics online are lashing out at Dr. Anthony Fauci following the all-too-predictable news that the infectious disease expert will be cashing in on the coronavirus pandemic by releasing a new "life philosophy" book this year.
The forthcoming book, titled "Expect the Unexpected: Ten Lessons on Truth, Service, and the Way Forward," was only just made available for pre-order purchase, but is already being hit with scathing criticism.
"Profiting from the pandemic with a book deal is truly a new low," Republican Rep. Andy Biggs (Ariz.) tweeted regarding the news.
"How very expected," conservative commentator Caleb Howe added in a tongue-in-cheek quip about the book's title.
Washington Times columnist Tim Young commented, "Fauci has a book coming out, because of course the highest paid Federal Government grifter is cashing in even more on the pandemic."
Fauci, who in January was appointed to serve as President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser in addition to his decades-long role as director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, is reportedly the highest-paid employee in the federal government — making $417,000 a year, even more than the president. Nevertheless, the allure of a pandemic-related book deal proved to be too tempting a prospect to pass up.
Of course, he isn't the first public official to ruminate about his experiences leading pandemic response efforts. Last year, the embattled Democratic governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, released a book highlighting his "true leadership."
Undoubtedly with that in mind, commentator Noah Blum suggested, "I really need the people in charge of handling this pandemic to stop writing books about how they're handling this pandemic while they're still doing it."
The book's Amazon listing cues up the project's offering, saying, "In his own words, world-renowned infectious disease specialist Anthony Fauci shares the lessons that have shaped his life philosophy, offering an intimate view of one of the world's greatest medical minds as well as universal advice to live by."
It also bills Fauci as "America's most trusted doctor," a view presumably shared by many, but rejected wholeheartedly by others who have maligned his flip-flopping and at times authoritarian approach to the managing the health crisis.
"Dr. Fauci is publishing a book and became the highest paid federal government employee while you lost your business and had your kids out of school for a year," the Daily Caller's Greg Price lamented.
In addition to Biggs, several other Republican congressmen — including Reps. Jim Jordan (Ohio), Mark Meadows (N.C.), and Dan Bishop (N.C.) — blasted the news online, recalling how Fauci's leadership restricted the First Amendment, led to stringent lockdown mandates, and closed schools.
The book is set to be released in early November, according to Publishers Lunch.On today's show, Hashtag FauciEmails is trending, and Crowder is doing a deep dive into them. (HINT: Everything you thought about him was probably right.) Also, Kamala Harris embarrassed herself with a Memorial Day tweet; a California girl fought a bear; and liberals think the American dream is dead? All that and more.
Watch the live show here. Can't watch? Download the podcast here to listen and catch up on missed episodes.
Crowder is back on YouTube tomorrow at 10 a.m. ET.
Want more from Steven Crowder?
To enjoy more of Steven's uncensored late-night comedy that's actually funny, join Mug Club — the only place for all of Crowder uncensored and on demand.A 10-year-old reportedly sustained a very real gunshot wound after he and his father allegedly engaged in a drive-by shooting armed with paintball guns, the Associated Press reported on Wednesday.
What are the details?
Police say that a Florida homeowner believed his home was under attack during the early hours of Sunday evening when 26-year-old Michael Williams reportedly drove his 10-year-old son to carry out a drive-by paintball attack on an Opa-locka-area home.
Williams reportedly told investigators that his son "begged" him to drive to a home where other young people were reportedly gathered on Sunday evening in order for him to fire his paintball gun out the window. It is unclear at the time of this reporting whether the child intended to shoot the group of young people or on the house itself.
Williams told police that he complied with his son's wishes and arrived at the home, where his son reportedly fired off several rounds from the paintball gun.
The homeowner, who remains unnamed at the time of this reporting, said that he believed his family was under attack during the incident, and in response, returned fire — just one shot that ended up striking the child.
According to the Associated Press report — which did not specify whether the boy was inside or outside the vehicle when he reportedly fired the paintball gun toward the home — the boy then lost his balance, fell over, and was run over by his father's vehicle. Williams was then said to have grabbed the child and driven him home, where his mother reportedly called emergency services.
There is no information on the child's injuries or condition at the time of this reporting.
On Thursday, the Miami Herald reported that authorities charged Williams with child neglect and great bodily harm.
Citing a police report, the Herald added that Williams was also accused of acting "recklessly by agreeing to conduct a drive-by paint ball shooting."
WFOR-TV reported that it was unclear at the time of publication whether Williams has an attorney who is representing him in the case.Just like the Left did in Georgia, Democrats and the media are now insisting that Texas' new proposed voting laws are a racist threat to democracy. But this time, instead of actually letting democracy play out through a vote, Democrats in the state legislature walked out and stopped the democratic process.
On the radio program Tuesday, Glenn Beck and Stu Burguiere take a look at the voting bill — which Democrats say is racist because it keeps early voting polls closed on Sundays until 1 o'clock to allow for poll workers to attend church — and explain why they believe the backlash is just another ridiculous display of hypocrisy from the Left.
Watch the video below for more:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.President Joe Biden's administration officially ended the controversial "remain in Mexico" policy that former President Donald Trump implemented in respect to migrants seeking asylum in the U.S.
A U.S. Department of Homeland Security memo issued Tuesday shut down the policy, technically known as Migrant Protection Protocols, after Biden had issued an executive order on Feb. 2 to have it reviewed for termination.
The MPP forced those seeking asylum to wait in Mexico instead of allowing them into the U.S. to wait for their documents to be processed.
Critics of the Biden administration have blamed his rollback of Trump immigration policies for the crisis at the border as an increasing number of migrants try to cross over. Border apprehensions during the first three month's of Biden's presidency exceeded that of the entire year before his presidency.
In response, Biden put Vice President Kamala Harris in charge of stemming the flow of migrants crossing from Mexico, saying, that he could think of "nobody who is better qualified to do this."
The memo from DHS Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas on Tuesday claimed that the policy was ineffective because of the increase of arrests at the border.
"Moreover, in making my assessment, I share the belief that we can only manage migration in an effective, responsible, and durable manner if we approach the issue comprehensively, looking well beyond our own borders," Mayorkas added.
An analysis from DHS in November 2019 found that the MPP had been successful in returning thousands of asylum-seekers to their home countries.
In March, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador warned his citizens that they should not believe the deceptive messaging from human traffickers telling them that Biden would regularize any immigrant illegally in the United States.
Here's more about the end of Trump's immigration policy:A Southern California teenager is receiving global attention after video went viral showing her shoving a mama bear off a wall using her bare hands as the predator threatened her dogs.
What are the details?
Hailey Morinico, 17, was captured on video rushing to save her family's four pet dogs as a mother bear with two cubs in tow sat on a wall in the back yard of her Bradbury home, swatting at the pets as they barked.
The bear was seen in the footage with her two babies walking on top of the barrier when one of Morinico's large dogs ran up barking at the bear. The mama bear swatted at the large dog, and Morinico sprang into action when the bear then started swatting at one of the smaller dogs.
"The dog that the bear grabbed, she's the baby," Morinico told KNBC-TV. "I have to protect the baby."
The teen recalled to the outlet that after she pushed the bear the predator fell back, then "the dog she grabbed ran away and I pick up my other dog and I scram."
The Daily Mail reported that in a TikTok video posted following the incident, Morinico said of the bear, "To be honest I don't think I pushed her that hard, I just pushed her enough to lose her balance."
The teen came out relatively unscathed from the incident, with a sprained finger and a scraped knee.
What was the reaction?
Morinico's mother posted on Facebook that her daughter "Just saved our dog with super human strength," describing the scene as, "for me one of the scariest moments in life."
"She sent the video on our family group chat and I just knew people would think it was crazy so I posted it. We did not expect this much of a reaction though!' her cousin Stephanie Lopez Villalobos, who posted the video of the rescue, told the Daily Mail.
'She's a crazy brave 17 year old!'
NBC News noted that according to experts, "squaring off with a bear should be avoided by humans at all costs."A former Republican congresswoman joked about former President Donald Trump and he responded in a scathing statement blasting her and "other RINO losers."
Barbara Comstock, formerly a U.S. representative from Virginia, said Sunday that most Republicans would be happy to distance themselves from the former president.
"I understand Republicans want to get away from Donald Trump. I mean, if Donald Trump disappeared tomorrow, I don't think you'd have many Republicans in the search party, right? Maybe a few prosecutors, but not Republicans," Comstock joked on NBC News' "Meet the Press."
"So they want to get away from him, but the problem is he's not going to go away," she added.
Comstock was discussing the rejection of a congressional probe into the riot at the U.S. Capitol by Republicans.
On Tuesday, Trump fired back a scathing response grouping her with other critics in the Republican Party.
"RINO Former Congresswoman Barbara Comstock of Virginia, who lost her race conclusively to someone she should have easily beaten, now goes around telling Republicans how to get elected," Trump said in his statement.
"She had no problems being with me while in the Oval Office, or when she needed something," he claimed. "She and other RINO losers like Mitt Romney, Little Ben Sasse, Lisa Murkowski, Liz Cheney, Adam Kinzinger, and Karl Rove are what's really wrong with the Republican Party, not the great MAGA Republicans, Conservatives, and Patriots!"
Comstock lost her re-election campaign for Virginia's 10th district in 2018 to Democratic Rep. Jennifer Wexton.
Supporters of the former president are in a heated battle with the establishment elements in the Republican party to steer its future. Trump has hinted that he wants to run again in 2024 while some Republicans have already vocally rejected the possibility and said they would not support him if he does.
Here's the video of Comstock's comments:The world's largest meatpacker, JBS SA, was reportedly hit by a cyberattack over the weekend, forcing the firm to halt production in all its U.S. beef plants and sparking fears of meat shortages in multiple countries.
What are the details?
Bloomberg reported that the Brazilian company has not yet released details itself, but that an official with the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union said JBS has shut down its beef processing facilities in America following a ransomware attack.
Fox News reported that the shutdowns impacted all nine JBS beef plants in the U.S., with locations in Arizona, Texas, Nebraska, Colorado, Wisconsin, Utah, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
JBS did confirm that it suspended its North American and Australian computer systems following the Sunday attack, but remains mum on how operational its plants are globally. The Wall Street Journal reported that JBS produces one quarter of the United States' beef and one-fifth of the country's pork. The company's pork plants in the U.S. appear to remain operational.
The Daily Mail noted that "JBS sells meat under 52 different brand names in the US, including Certified Angus Beef, 5 Star Reserve, Blue Ribbon Angus Beef and Pilgrim's."
According to Bloomberg, "The prospect of more extensive shutdowns worldwide is already upending agricultural markets and raising concerns about food security as hackers increasingly target critical infrastructure. Livestock futures slumped, while pork prices rose."
White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said Tuesday that the Biden administration "has offered assistance to JBS" following the attack, and disclosed during a media briefing that JBS told the White House that they received a ransom demand from a criminal organization "likely based in Russia," CNN reported.
What else?
The attack comes off the heels of a cyberattack on the U.S. Colonial Pipeline Co. last month, which forced the company that supplies nearly half the fuel to the Eastern Seaboard to shut down and purportedly pay millions in ransom to a Russian criminal group to regain operations.
The attack on Colonial sparked fears of shortages and caused a run on gas stations in the southeastern U.S., driving up prices regionally and pushing the national price of gasoline upward of $3 per gallon. The Daily Caller pointed out that at least four governors declared states of emergency during the ordeal.West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice (R) has joined the ranks of governors who are incentivizing people to get vaccinated for COVID-19 by conducting a lottery where only inoculated residents may participate.
But the state is setting itself apart by offering an array of prizes beyond cash, including firearms and trucks.
What are the details?
Gov. Justice announced during a media briefing that the lottery will launch on the state's upcoming 158th birthday on June 20, where a handful of West Virginians will become millionaires, and other winners will receive getaways to West Virginia state parks, customized pick-up trucks, lifetime hunting and fishing licenses, and even custom rifles and shotguns. The drawings will go through Aug. 4.
The Republican noted that to become eligible, residents must have at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine.
Also, all West Virginians ages 16-35 who have been fully vaccinated may register to receive either $100 savings bond or $100 gift card. Students ages 12 to 25 will also be eligible to win one of two full, four-year scholarships for any institution in the state, The Hill reported.
"There are going to be so many wonderful prizes that you can win, it will blow you away," Gov. Justice said. "We are going to make a few West Virginians millionaires before this is over. Some people will win trucks and scholarships and on and on, but we've got to get you vaccinated first."
"Not only are a bunch of people going to win all kinds of great stuff, but, by getting vaccinated, it'll protect your life and it'll protect your family and friends all around you," he went on to say. "Save a life; change your life."
Justice also brought his beloved bulldog, Babydog, into his news conference last week to urge West Virginians to get the COVID-19 shots.
"If you won't do it for me, if you won't do it for your family, you've got to get vaccinated for Babydog," the governor said. "She wants you vaccinated so badly."
Gov. Justice holds press briefing on COVID-19 response - May 27, 2021 www.youtube.com
Anything else?
Forbes noted that West Virginia is not alone in offering gun-related incentives for getting vaccinated, reporting that "Illinois has also set up a mobile vaccination site at a shooting range in the state and is giving away 100 free targets to anyone who gets the vaccine there."A surveillance video caught a wild shootout that police suspect was a confrontation between rival gangs outside a bodega in New York City.
The video obtained by WABC-TV showed several young men outside a bodega in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn about 8 p.m. Monday.
One man pulls out a gun and starts shooting at another while the rest scatter. Seconds later, the second man comes back shooting with his own gun. A third man takes out his gun and shoots at the second man, who runs away.
The video only lasts seconds but WABC reports that five of the men were shot in that time. A 38-year-old man was shot in the arm, a 29-year-old was shot in the leg, a 25-year-old was shot in the back, and a 24-year-old was shot in the chest. A fifth man also suffered a shooting injury.
Police had made no arrests as of Tuesday but they expected that some of the men injured were going to be charged in the incident. They suspect a confrontation between members of the Trinitarios gang and their rivals sparked the shooting.
NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio tried to reassure residents that the crime wave would subside as the city opened up after the coronavirus pandemic shutdown.
"Recovery is going to help move public safety, public safety is going to help move recovery," said de Blasio to WABC. "I understand the fear, I really do. And there's a persistent concern which I've heard now for decades in this city of are we going to go back to the bad old days, and I really try my best to help people understand there are so many reasons why that is not going to happen."
One expert told WABC that de Blasio was absolutely wrong and that opening up the city would likely lead to even more crime.
"Safety produces activity, activity is not going to produce safety," said NYU Urban Studies professor Mitchell Moss.
Here's a news video about the shooting:One firefighter was killed and another was wounded in a shooting at a California fire station on Tuesday, according to multiple reports.
Authorities believe the suspect is a "disgruntled employee" who reportedly fled the scene and allegedly lit his own home on fire following the shooting.
What are the details?
"It is with heavy hearts that the LACoFD confirms that a tragic shooting occurred at approximately 10:55 a.m. today at FS 81 in Agua Dulce," the Los Angeles County Fire Department tweeted. "The Dept. is still in the process of gathering additional information & are cooperating with law enf. throughout this ongoing incident."
Local outlet KABC-TV initially reported that the firefighter injured in the shooting suffered "multiple gunshot wounds," and was flown to hospital for treatment. He was rushed into surgery and was in critical condition as of the 3 p.m. local time. KTLA-TV reported at the time that officials indicated the injured man, a captain, was shot once.
The Daily Mail reported that following the shooting at the fire station, the unnamed suspect allegedly drove to his home roughly t10 miles away and set it ablaze.
Firefighters made several water drops on the home using a helicopter. Meanwhile, deputies approached the home in a bearcat vehicle to assess the situation because the suspect is believed to be in the home, according to footage from KABC.
Lt. Brandon Dean of the LA County Sheriff's Homicide Bureau, who is leading the law enforcement investigation into the incidents, confirmed during an afternoon news conference that the suspect was an off-duty firefighter who worked at the Agua Dulce station.
When officers arrived at the home that was on fire, they found an individual in a "small pool" outside the residence with a gunshot wound to the head. As of the news conference, authorities were not yet able to confirm whether the gunshot wound was self-inflicted, as the home was still on fire and the investigation is in its preliminary stages.
Officials are not yet able to confirm whether or not the suspect was the same person in the pool. No motive has been established at this time.
This is a developing story that will be updatedA suspect caught in a disturbing surveillance video randomly attacking a 55-year-old Asian woman in New York City's Chinatown has been charged with a hate crime and police say he had been arrested eight times in the last year.
Video of the heinous unprovoked attack was sent to a New York state lawmaker who represents the area and she posted it to her Twitter account on Monday.
(CAUTION: Graphic video)
"This was just sent to me from my constituent," tweeted New York Assemblymember Yuh-Line Niou. "This just happened in my district in Chinatown. He has been arrested and our precinct is investigating."
The video shows the man viciously punching the woman in the face as she walked by him near the Kong Sihk Tong café.
"The woman hit the ground, her butt hit the ground, she fell back, the back of her head hit the outdoor dining structure. And her eyes just shut out, blacked out," said Jin Zhen, who witnessed the attack, to WLNY-TV.
Police arrested 48-year-old Alexander Wright for the crime and charged him with one count of assault as a hate crime. He was also charged with criminal possession of a controlled substance after police said they found K2, a synthetic marijuana drug, during his arrest.
Police Commissioner Dermot Shea expressed outrage that Wright had such an extensive criminal background and yet was allowed to be back on the streets.
"Lives in a shelter, arrested eight times in the last year, randomly assaulting people, setting fires," said Shea. "The guy that was arrested on Friday setting fires. What are we doing in society, we're releasing these people right back onto the street?"
Police said Wright would undergo a psychiatric analysis.
One study said that crimes against Asians had risen 169% from the first quarter of 2021 compared to that of 2020 across 15 major cities.
Here's a local news report about the hate crime charge:A New Jersey fifth grader's Adolf Hitler biography — written as if the Nazi dictator penned it — stated "I was very popular" and asked "I was pretty great, wasn't I?" NorthJersey.com reported.
And it also hung in Maugham Elementary School for weeks, the outlet said, which shocked Tenafly residents.
What's more, NorthJersey.com — citing a parent of another student — reported that the assignment also included the student who wrote the bio dressed as Hitler.
What are the details?
The outlet said the one-page bio was displayed in a school hallway alongside reports from other students starting in April, according to Lori Birk, who posted an image of the report in question on Facebook.
The student's Hitler bio also read, "My greatest accomplishment was uniting a great mass of German and Austrian people behind me." NorthJersey.com said it also read, "I was very popular and many people followed me until I died. My belif [sic] in antisemitism drove me to kill more than 6 million Jews."
Birk also wrote that the student "dressed as Hitler while delivering the ... project to the entire class."
This is ignorance, antisemitism, and hatred taught at a fifth grade level," Birk added on her Facebook post. "Shame on the parents who helped their child dress as Hitler and the teacher who has approved such hatred."
What did the school district have to say?
According to the outlet, Tenafly Schools Superintendent Shauna DeMarco said she learned Friday of "a serious matter involving a school project completed recently on Adolf Hitler."
"I have requested that all associated information related to this project be provided to me," DeMarco wrote to parents and staff, NorthJersey.com reported. "Once I receive and review the full information, I will determine any further action that should be taken."
She wouldn't offer more information Monday as it could compromise "the integrity of the investigation, the rights of those involved and any responsive actions that may be required," the outlet said.
DeMarco did say, however, that the investigation will resume Tuesday and be "concluded as swiftly as possible," NorthJersey.com reported.
'Up for at least two weeks'
Birk told the outlet she got her information from the parent of another Maugham fifth-grader from a different class but who "still had to walk down the hall and see it."
Birk also told NorthJersey.com that the parent said the assignment was part of a teacher-approved "character development" project for the entire class — and that objections to the Hitler bio hanging in the hallway were raised in April.
"It was up for at least two weeks," she added to the outlet.
Birk's Facebook post also elicited outrage-filled comments. "This is insane," one person wrote, capturing the mood of many observers. "If someone had chosen Osama Bin Laden would that have been acceptable? There's nothing to look into here. This child, his/her parents, and the teachers involved should all be reprimanded in some way. This child and his/her parents should have to watch testimonies of holocaust survivors and footage of the concentration camps and write a follow report on the atrocities of Hitler and the Holocaust. And the teachers involved have no excuse — they should be fired."Steven Crowder will return to YouTube this week after the platform issued Crowder his second hard strike which resulted in suspension. So what did Crowder do that made YouTube restrict his ability to upload content on his channel? Crowder explains here. This is Crowder's last chance. If he gets one more strike, his channel will be removed permanently. Watch the video, mark your calendars, and don't miss Crowder's return on Thursday, June 3rd at 10 AM ET.
Catch up on missed episodes here.
Want more from Steven Crowder?
To enjoy more of Steven's uncensored late-night comedy that's actually funny, join Mug Club — the only place for all of Crowder uncensored and on demand.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) signed Tuesday a version of the "Fairness in Women's Sports Act" into law, prohibiting males who identify as transgender females from competing on female sports teams in high school and college.
"We believe in the state of Florida, of protecting the fairness and the integrity of women's athletics," DeSantis said at the signing ceremony, standing onstage with teenage girl athletes from Trinity Christian Academy.
"And I can tell you this in Florida, you know, girls are going to play girls' sports and boys are going play boys' sports, that's what we're doing. We're going to make sure that that's the reality," he continued. "So the bill that we're doing today will ensure fairness for women athletes for years to come in the state of Florida. It says that athletic teams or sports that are designated for females are open to females. And we're going to go based off biology."
DeSantis signed the bill even though the National Collegiate Athletic Association threatened to pull its championship games out of states that "discriminate" against transgender athletes. Other companies warned that they would pull their business out of Florida because of the bill. DeSantis didn't care.
"Some of these organizations say they're not going to hold events if you do this, just let me say very clearly, in Florida, we're going to do what's right, will stand up to corporations, they are not going to dictate the policies in this state," the governor said. "We will stand up to groups like the NCAA, who think that they should be able to dictate the policies in different states."
Democrats and LGBT activists opposed the legislation as well, characterizing the bill as "unnecessary" and accused Florida Republicans of acting hatefully toward transgender persons.
Some critics observed that DeSantis signed the bill on June 1, the first day of National LGBTQ Pride Month, which in their view added insult to injury.
"Appalling," tweeted state Rep. Carlos Guillermo Smith (D-Orlando). "First day of LGBTQ Pride Month and Gov. Ron DeSantis signs SB 1028 which bans trans kids from school sports. FHSAA has allowed trans kids to participate in FL since 2013 with ZERO problems. This fuels transphobia and puts vulnerable kids at risk for no good reason."
"By signing a heartless ban on transgender kids in sports, @GovRonDeSantis is marginalizing an entire community," Florida agriculture commissioner Niki Fried tweeted. "Signing it on the first day of #Pride2021 is especially cruel."
Fried, the only Florida Democrat currently holding statewide elected office, announced a bid for the Democratic nomination to challenge DeSantis for governor Tuesday.
"Florida should stand for inclusivity, equality, and liberty — not peddling hate for political points," she said.
A standalone version of the Fairness in Women's Sports Act had previously died in the state legislature, but Republicans revived the bill as an amendment to a larger bill related to charter schools.
The final version of the bill removed some of the most controversial portions in the first draft, including a requirement that student athletes undergo testosterone or genetic testing and have their genitalia examined before joining sports teams.
Almost immediately after DeSantis signed the bill, the Human Rights Campaign, an LGBTQ+ advocacy organization, declared it would sue Florida.
"The Human Rights Campaign will always stand up to anti-equality forces on behalf of transgender kids, and that is exactly what we plan to do by legally challenging this ban on the participation of transgender girls and women in sports," HRC President Alphonso David said in a statement. "Gov. DeSantis and Florida lawmakers are legislating based on a false, discriminatory premise that puts the safety and well-being of transgender children on the line. Transgender kids are kids; transgender girls are girls. Like all children, they deserve the opportunity to play sports with their friends and be a part of a team. Transgender youth must not be deprived of the opportunity to learn important skills of sportsmanship, healthy competition, and teamwork. The harmful provisions added to SB 1028 will not just impact transgender people in Florida. All Floridians will have to face the consequences of this anti-transgender legislation — including economic harm, expensive taxpayer-funded legal battles, and a tarnished reputation. In Florida, we are ensuring that there are legal consequences to pay for being on the wrong side of history."
The bill's supporters say legislation was needed to prevent unfair competition in women's sports.
"This bill is very simply about making sure that women can safely compete, have opportunities and physically be able to excel in a sport that they trained for, prepared for and work for," said state Sen. Kelli Stargel, who sponsored the legislation.
"This is nothing about anybody being discriminated against," she said. "It's solely so that women have an opportunity to compete in women's sports."
Florida joins West Virginia, Montana, and Idaho in banning transgender athletes from competing in women's sports.
Watch:Democratic Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D.C.) introduced legislation Tuesday that requires automobile companies to test car safety using crash test dummies modeled on both male and female bodies.
In addition to enhancing the safety of female drivers, the non-voting delegate representing the nation's capital argued the move was necessary to advance "gender equality."
What did she say?
In a statement regarding the bill, Norton, who chairs the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, argued, "Women have achieved equality on the road when it comes to driving, but when it comes to safety testing to keep them safe on the road, they are nowhere near achieving equality."
"Crash test standards are incredibly antiquated, and we must update these standards now, especially as more people return to their daily commute in the next few months," she added.
In a news release release, Norton's office lamented the fact that the federal government only uses male crash test dummies and that private car companies are often not required by law to test safety using female models.
In addition to height and weight differences, the news release noted that "there are also other biological differences in anatomy, such as average neck strength and posture, that affect how female and male bodies react in a crash."
"Since cars are not required to be tested with the safety of women in mind, women are at higher risk of injury and death in car crashes," the release concluded.
Notably, the progressive lawmaker acknowledged both the gender binary and the consequent biological differences in her appeal for an update to federal regulations, two things many Democratic lawmakers are resistant to affirm as it relates to other policy issues.
Nevertheless, she may be on to something
Despite her pandering to the progressive base by using buzzy "gender equality" language, Norton may actually be on to something with the bill.
According to research from the University of Virginia, female drivers are 73% more prone to serious injury from a car crash compared to male drivers in a similar crash and also nearly 20% more likely to die as a result of a car crash.
In 2013, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) reported that female drivers and passengers are about 17% more likely to be killed in a car crash than a male driver or passenger of the same age.
While there certainly could be a number of factors that contribute to the disparity, some believe that the U.S. could go a long way towards bridging the gap simply by using more female crash test dummies in safety tests.
According to Consumer Reports, in the vast majority of safety tests, auto companies typically use a model representing the 50th percentile male — or a 171-pound, 5-foot-9-inch dummy. Female dummies, on the other hand, are hardly ever used.One of the eight candidates vying for the Democratic nomination for New York City mayor in the June primary just launched a new ad that, the New York Post reported, ticked off one of Gotham's most powerful groups: the New York Police Department.
Maya Wiley, a civil rights lawyer and former MSNBC contributor as well as onetime adviser to current Mayor Bill de Blasio, posted a new ad in which she goes after the NYPD for ramming into and beating so-called "peaceful protesters" during the George Floyd and other Black Lives Matter protests — many of which turned into violent riots and massive looting events. She also criticized New York leaders for allowing these NYPD violations to happen and then defending them.
The ad, narrated by Wiley, shows police clashing with protesters last spring and summer. As the footage runs, Wiley says, "They rammed into peaceful protesters, beat others to the ground, and New York's leaders defended it. But it was an injustice to those of us who know black lives matter."
Wiley goes on to claim in her ad that she will "transform the police" and that, as mayor, she will "be in charge, and ... get it done."
"It's time the NYPD sees us as people who deserve to breathe," she concludes.
Unsurprisingly, NYPD officers were less than thrilled with Wiley's new ad, and their union leaders were not afraid to make sure the world knew exactly how their members felt.
The Sergeants Benevolent Association union President Ed Mullins said in a statement, "Maya Wiley is a de Blasio flunky and will soon be put on a shelf with other loser politicians who attempt to live off a government paycheck," the Post reported.
Noting the spike in crime New York has seen — much like many other liberal-run cities calling for the defunding of police — Mullins added, "Sadly, her silence on the increasing violence in NYC is indicative of how out of touch she is with the city and explains why she's losing in the polls."
"If she truly cared, she would stop self-promoting and start screaming about the gun violence taking the lives of young African American males on the streets of NYC," Mullins said.
The Detectives' Endowment Association union President Paul DiGiacomo went after Wiley's claim that the protesters were somehow "peaceful."
"Maybe Maya Wiley wasn't paying attention when the 'peaceful' riots were taking place in the streets of the city she wants to lead," DiGiacomo said in a statement reported by the Post, "but hundreds of cops were injured and the businesses of hardworking New Yorkers were destroyed. If not for the police, the damage would have been even worse.
"I also can't think of anyone who cares more for every person in every neighborhood than cops," he added. "To them it's more than politics and hashtags. They're on the ground risking it all every day to keep people safe — laying down their lives if necessary."
An anonymous detective told the Post that Wiley is doing nothing but "dividing the city" and should instead "be spending more of her time and ad money on trying to help the minorities that are getting shot by minorities every day in the city."
Wiley responded to the NYPD criticisms Tuesday, the Post said, claiming that after the June 22 primaries, "there's going to be a new sheriff in town."Leona Kimes, one of disgraced ex-pastor Carl Lentz's former nannies, says she was the victim of disturbing repeated sexual touching
Lentz was fired from his position as lead pastor at New York City's Hillsong Church after it was revealed he reportedly had been cheating on his wife.
What are the details?
In a lengthy reveal on Medium, Kimes — now a co-pastor at Hillsong Boston with her husband Josh Kimes — said that Lentz was guilty of "repeated sexual touching" during her tenure with the family.
Kimes worked with Lentz and his family for seven years between 2010 and 2017 before moving to Boston, and revealed that her traumatic experience led her to seek "intense therapy" after she left. She was also working as the associate pastor in New York at the time.
"While there were joyful moments during that time, no one knew that I also experienced a great deal of pain," Kimes wrote in the Medium article. "During the years I spent serving them, I was subjected to manipulation, control, bullying, abuse of power, and sexual abuse. Having told almost no one before this, I am just now able to share what I experienced in their home as the result of intense therapy."
Kimes continued, "The abuse of power started small. Hours would increase beyond belief. Often I would work from 7 am to 11 pm. Schedules were switched last minute without even attempting to confirm my availability. Tasks kept getting added and added to my load. They made fun of me constantly, even calling me Cinderella, which they said was their way of loving me."
Kimes said that the experience started out as "classic bullying."
The bullying, she explained, soon turned sexual.
"My pastor would look at me and say, 'Gurl, you're looking good. You've been in the gym?' There was a lot of flirty teasing like this. I had been around long enough to know that's just how he was with women. But after a while, the comments started to escalate."
At one point, she recalled Lentz telling her "[A]fter you have kids, we'll buy you a boob job."
"Looking back, I know I felt embarrassed, but I didn't know it was wrong then," she insisted. "It hadn't occurred to me that I had a right to not be spoken to like that, by my pastor or anyone else."
It got even worse after that, she said, and Lentz reportedly began touching her in intimate areas.
"While he never had intercourse with me and never kissed me, I was physically violated by his unwanted and repeated sexual touching of my intimate areas," she said. "I froze. Every time, I froze."
Kimes said that she complained about the behavior in 2016, but the family "blamed and silenced" her for the reported behavior.
"I was the problem," she said. "But they kept me in my role, and I worked harder than ever after that."
Kimes said still couldn't get out from underneath the ex-pastor's thumb.
"I tried to escape by telling him I would find a new job outside of church," Kimes recalled. "Even though my husband was on staff, too, I thought it would be the best solution. I will never forget my pastor standing over me with a stern look, asking me who would possibly hire me. Without a college degree, he asked, what kind of job did I think I could get in New York City? I won't forget how that made me feel, so alone, so worth absolutely nothing[.]"
A spokesperson for Lentz denied all allegations and said that the Lentz family has "irrefutable proof the events did not happen as they are being described."
What else?
In a Sunday statement, Brian and Bobbie Houston, founders of Hillsong Church, said that Kimes' experience was nothing short of disturbing.
“After the termination of the former Lead Pastor of Hillsong East Coast, it was clear the issues were significant and because of our concerns, we initiated an independent and lengthy investigation into the culture of all four Hillsong East Coast locations," a portion of their statement read.
“In the process of seeking clarity, hearing Leona Kimes' experience was very disturbing," the statement continued. "We have respected Leona's privacy and her deeply personal story. She has now decided to share her experience so that she and her husband can continue moving forward as a family."
The family continued, "We know that Leona may face criticism for her story and her choice to share it. In that light, we commend her for her courage and have assured her of our utmost compassion in their journey forward. Abuse of any kind, in any circumstance, is always deplorable. As a church, we are committed to learning more about how to identify such trauma and bring meaningful support to anyone who has experienced it."For some parents of children attending New York City's posh Dalton School, the maxim "you get what you pay for" couldn't ring any hollower.
Particularly at $55,000 per year.
What happened?
Sources told the New York Post that Dalton "health and wellness" educator Justine Ang Fonte has used a cartoon video in one of her sex-ed classes for 6-year-olds explaining all about the pleasure of touching their very prepubescent private parts.
After going over the process of urination, a little boy character in the video blurts out: "Hey, how come sometimes my penis gets big sometimes and points in the air?"
The woman character, presumably a teacher, explains that he's experiencing an "erection" — after which the boy says, "Sometimes I touch my penis because it feels good."
With that, a little girl character adds, "Sometimes, when I'm in my bath or when Mom puts me to bed, I like to touch my vulva, too."
The woman then explains that "you have a clitoris there ... that probably feels good to touch the same way [the boy's] penis feels good when he touches it."
Help kids learn that bodies are private [with Scoops & Friends] youtu.be
The woman adds that while "it's OK to touch yourself and see how different body parts feel ... it's best to only do it in private."
Fonte has reassured parents that she does not use the word "masturbation" in class and that, as the clip mentions, her lessons teach students to not touch themselves in public, the Post reported.
A flap over consent
But the paper said parents also are upset over lessons about "consent," which can be beneficial when it comes to protecting children from abuse — but the Post added that it's angering parents since kids are being told that they can't even be hugged without permission.
"I'm paying $50,000 to these a**holes to tell my kid not to let her grandfather hug her when he sees her?" one parent told the Post, which said parents spoke on the condition of anonymity because they fear retaliation.
Fonte's lessons for first graders also include subjects such as gender assigned at birth, gender identity, and gender expression, the paper reported.
"Kids have no less than five classes on gender identity — this is pure indoctrination," a Dalton mother revealed to the Post. "This person should absolutely not be teaching children. Ironically, she teaches kids about 'consent' yet she has never gotten consent from parents about the sexually explicit and age-inappropriate material about transgender to first graders."
Another mother told the paper, "We are furious. We were horrified to learn this was shown to our first-grade 6- and 7-year-old kids without our knowledge or consent. But it's so hard to fight back because you'll get canceled, and your child will suffer."
What else?
The controversy unfolded in the fall after parents caught wind of the video in question, the Post said, adding that school officials said they "misinterpreted" the content. However, the paper said the school "quietly removed the video about kids touching themselves from the curriculum."
Then the Post ran a story on Fonte's explicit "porn literacy" workshop at another elite institution — Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School — and the paper, citing sources, said Dalton parents reacted by lodging additional complaints about Fonte's curriculum.
More from the Post:
Last week The Post reported on Fonte's workshop, "Porn Literacy: An intersectional focus on mainstream porn," at Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School. The often-explicit slide presentation and lecture to the 120 co-ed juniors included how porn takes care of "three big male vulnerabilities"; statistics on the "orgasm gap" showing straight women have far fewer orgasms with their partners than gay men or women; and photos of partially nude women, some in bondage, to analyze "what is porn and what is art."
Fonte's presentation included a list of the most-searched pornographic terms of 2019, including "creampie," "anal," "gangbang," "stepmom" and more.
And while Columbia's head of school, William M. Donohue, appeared apologetic to parents about Fonte's porn presentation, a comment from a Dalton spokesman to TMZ seemed anything but:
As part of Dalton's comprehensive Health curriculum for students, a lesson on Gender & Bodies included two evidence-based and age-appropriate videos approved for students 4 years and older. These videos align with nationally recognized methodologies and standards. We consistently review our Health curriculum, making sure that the content is developmentally appropriate and, if necessary, we adapt our curriculum accordingly. We will continue to listen carefully to parent feedback, respond thoughtfully to community concerns, and develop lessons that are in the best interest of our students, respect our community's values, and correspond with best practices.A Pennsylvania police chief has been charged with a federal crime after an area resident accused the chief of threatening him with bogus charges.
The man reportedly had been criticizing the chief on Facebook for the way he operated the department and its officers, according to a Tuesday report in The Washington Post.
What are the details?
According to the report, Brian Buglio, 45, threatened fake charges unless the man — identified as Paul DeLorenzo — deleted his critical post.
In 2020, Buglio, 45, reportedly called the man to the West Hazleton Police Department to deliver the ultimatum.
According to the outlet, Buglio is now facing federal charges in connection with that incident for "allegedly threatening a private citizen with criminal charges in retaliation for the social media posts" as documented in a lawsuit filed last week in the U.S. District Court with the Middle District of Pennsylvania.
DeLorenzo recalled asking the chief, "'Why are you doing this?' He goes, 'Well, you like to post fake things and fake stories about me, so I could make up a fake arrest and put you in jail.'"
According to the outlet, some of DeLorenzo's posts included criticism that Buglio reportedly "had taken too long to make an arrest in a case he was involved with."
DeLorenzo also reportedly accused Buglio of committing a violent crime.
DeLorenzo told WNEP-TV, "He called me, left me a voicemail, and said that he was going to arrest me for a crime that was being investigated for something I've never even done or had any part of."
DeLorenzo said he showed up at the precinct to discuss the matter with Buglio at his request, during which time he was said to have "acknowledged that the threatened felony charges lacked merit," according to the complaint.
"By the end of the meeting, DeLorenzo agreed to take down the posts from the social media platform and to refrain from posting any other critical messages about Buglio and his force," the Post noted.
DeLorenzo told WNEP, however, that he almost immediately called the FBI to report Buglio's reported conduct.
What's next for police chief
On Thursday, federal authorities charged Buglio with one count of deprivation of civil rights. If convicted on the charge, he could spend up to one year in prison, and be forced to pay a $100,000 fine.
The outlet noted that Buglio has agreed to plead guilty according to court documents in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania and said that he would resign from his position.Chinese officials say that a man in the eastern part of the country has contracted what could be the world's very first human case of H10N3 bird flu.
The risk of large-scale spread is low, according to a Tuesday report from the Associated Press.
What are the details?
The patient, a 41-year-old man from Jiangsu province, was hospitalized with the virus on April 28. He is in stable condition, according to the the country's National Health Commission, and according to NBC News is ready to be discharged.
A statement from the commission stated, "This infection is an accidental cross-species transmission. The risk of large-scale transmission is low."
A Tuesday Reuters report noted that Chinese officials did not state how the man became infected with the avian influenza virus.
"H10N3 is a low pathogenic, or relatively less severe, strain of the virus in poultry and the risk of it spreading on a large scale was very low, the NHC added," according to the report, which also pointed out that just 160 isolates of the virus were reported in the 40 years leading up to 2018.
"No other cases of human infection with H10N3 have previously been reported globally," Reuters reported.
According to the Hindustan Times, "The Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) conducted a genome sequence on a blood sample from the patient last week and confirmed that it was the H10N3 strain."
"Local authorities have traced the patient's contacts and have kept them under medical observation," the report added.
Experts warn people to avoid contact with "sick or dead poultry," and avoid "direct contact with live birds."
People should also pay attention to "food hygiene, wear masks, improve self-protection awareness, and check for fever and respiratory symptoms."
The NHC noted that no other cases of human infection with H10N3 have been reported elsewhere across the globe.Despite the assertion peddled by Democratic politicians and media pundits alike that voter photo identification laws are racist tools used only to accomplish voter suppression, such laws are the norm across nearly all western democracies as a commonsense means to ensure election integrity.
What are the details?
A recent survey conducted by the Crime Prevention Research Center found that election integrity measures such as voter photo ID requirements — which now are referred to as the "new Jim Crow" by progressives in America — are broadly accepted by democratic governments globally.
In fact, a whopping 46 of 47 European democracies require a government-issued photo ID in order to vote, and the one exception — the United Kingdom — is on its way to becoming the 47th, according to CPRC Director John R. Lott Jr., who summarized the organization's findings in an article for RealClearInvestigations on Tuesday.
Beyond that, 33 of 38 member nations of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development also require photo IDs to vote. Only the U.K., Japan, New Zealand, and Australia do not.
The U.K., which reportedly already requires voter IDs in Northern Ireland for all elections and in parts of England for local elections, is considering this year legislation that would make photo IDs a national mandate.
Criticisms of the U.K. legislation have been predictably similar to the criticisms of legislation recently introduced by states in the U.S., such as Georgia, Florida, and Texas. In essence, opponents argue that election reforms, and photo ID requirements in particular, disproportionately disenfranchise minority and low-income individuals.
What else?
Though it's strange that progressives in the U.S., who otherwise look to European countries for political inspiration, refuse to recognize what is obvious even to the liberal societies across the Atlantic — that voter photo ID requirements are prudent — it's not necessarily surprising.
It's just politics, argues Lott. The economist and former Trump administration official explained that the polemic launched by Democrats is just part of an effort "to make permanent the extraordinary, pandemic-driven measures to relax voting rules during the 2020 elections."
Under the For the People Act of 2021, recently passed by the House, state voter ID rules would be replaced by a national measure allowing voters to merely submit a signed statement, making "permanent the pandemic's mail-in ballot voting," Lott suggested.
He warned: "The mailing out of blank absentee ballots en masse would become a fixture of American elections."
Anything else?
But for all of the misinformation spewed by Democratic figures, including President Joe Biden, the party has had a hard time convincing the public.
According to a new Rasmussen poll published in March, 75% of Americans support voter photo ID laws, up from 67% in 2018. And it wasn't only Republicans who reported support for such laws, but 77% of independents and 60% of Democrats ascribed favor for them, as well.Sadly, there is nothing new about the story of Darion Lafayette. A young black suspect with a long rap sheet who kills a cop with a gun he was able to purchase despite Illinois' tough gun control measures — that is essentially the story of every major city. What is new, however, is that after the other cop in this deadly altercation was forced to kill Lafayette, the local media initially treated Lafayette as a martyr, despite the fact that the officer was justified by a mile. Thus, we have now reached a point in society when a black criminal can kill a cop and it's the fault of everyone (and the gun) except the criminal. Last Friday, WCIA-TV, the CBS affiliate in Champaign, Illinois, aired a segment on Darion Lafayette, a deceased cop-killer, literally depicting him as an angel.
The segment began with an interview of a family member declaring, "He's the most compassionate person who you will ever meet in your life, if you ever knew him." Jessica Kunz, who anchored that broadcast, followed up, "And now they're mourning him after he died in an exchange of gunfire with Champaign police."
Back when America's media was sane, someone watching this segment would have thought that police somehow accidentally shot this innocent bystander in the middle of a shootout. The reality is quite different. Officer Chris Oberheim and his partner, Officer Jeffrey Creel, were responding to a domestic disturbance call at an apartment complex in the early hours of May 19 when Lafayette allegedly charged at Creel from his car. Neither officer even drew his weapon as Lafayette engaged in a physical struggle with Creel. During the struggle, Lafayette fired a 9mm Glock, striking Oberheim three times, including one time fatally in the head. Creel was also shot three times but managed to take cover behind his car.
Content warning: Graphic footage.
Illinois State Police OID 051921 Champaign IL, Fatal, ISP DCI, Rev. Champaign Co S.A., Oberheim BCam www.youtube.com
Only at that point, according to a preliminary investigation by state's attorney Julia Rietz, did Creel use his uninjured arm to fire four shots at the suspect. Lafayette later died of his wounds.
Officer Creel is a surviving hero, and Officer Oberheim is a hero who sadly leaves behind a grieving wife and four daughters. Based on the details of the investigation, one has to wonder whether they hesitated in drawing their weapons quickly enough and whether that led to Oberheim's death. Yet, despite these details being abundantly clear from day one, WCIA still ran the segment essentially mourning the life of Lafayette more than a week later. It is this irresponsible treatment of every cop shooting as unjustified and every black criminal as a hero that is needlessly stoking racial tensions and animus against cops, while emboldening the worst street criminals.
Officer Oberheim's sister told Breitbart News that when she called the station to complain, the reporter initially blew her off. Later on, WCIA did issue an apology. However, what this story demonstrates is that there is an entire segment of society that now believes police must die at the hands of the increasing number of violent criminals on the streets, and if the suspect is black, the suspect is always celebrated, while the cop is vilified.
After the report aired, dozens of local businesses showed support for the slain officer's family by canceling their advertisements on WCIA, and instead, donated to the family's GoFundMe page.
Here is a list of businesses that pulled their advertising from WCIA, per one local activist on Facebook.
Budget Blinds
Tatman's Towing
Angel Paws Grooming & Petsitting
Mattex Heating Cooling Plumbing & Electrical
Lanz Heating & Cooling
Rector Construction
Freedom Roofing & Construction
Sunset Funeral Home
Confidentially Yours
Budget Blinds of Champaign
CU Under Construction
Starr Limousine
Crystal Clean Cleaning Service
Diepholz Auto
Illini Recycling
Rector Construction
Gibson Area Hospital & Health Services
Roofing Dog
Perfectionist Cleaning Service
Furry Overhead Door
Furry Gutter Company
Menold Construction
ACE Hardware/ Mahomet & Gibson City
Bancko Overhead Garage Doors
Coach House Garages
Baldwin Bytes
Castle Home Comfort Heating & Cooling
CIBM Bank
Becker Construction
Kustom Services
Highway's Tree Removal
Mom & Pop's Kettle Korn Stop
PSR Home Improvement
Roofs by Rodger
Loman-Ray Insurance Group, LLC
Woodlawn Country Club/Farmer City
Bacon & VanBuskirk Glass Company
McKinley Water Conditioning/Farmer City
Wyldewood Cellars
Awards Limited
Holly's Country Kitchen/Monticello
Champaign Ford City
Ryan Dallas Real Estate
Popejoy Roofing
P & P heating and cooling
Edelman Inc.
Christie Clinic
Perhaps this successful boycott might provide patriots with a blueprint for using the cancel culture against the cancelers.
The twisted irony is that, among the celebrated, sainted, and martyred criminals shot by police in recent months, not a single one of them was someone who should be admired. As reported by Breitbart News, "According to Champaign county court records, Lafayette has been charged with aggravated domestic violence with three different women as well as possession of drugs, including methamphetamine."
As I've reported before, the reason why seemingly innocuous police encounters are increasingly turning deadly is because, thanks to "criminal justice reform," so many violent criminals who were previously in jail are now out on the streets. It's not surprising that these same individuals will needlessly resist arrest or even attack the police during what should be a routine encounter.
Just last week, local media in Minneapolis reported that Daunte Wright, the latest sainted figure of BLM and the cultural elite, is being accused posthumously in a civil lawsuit of nearly killing a 16-year-old boy in May 2019. Jennifer LeMay, the mother of Caleb Livingston, filed suit against Wright's estate alleging that Wright shot her son in the head two years ago, leaving him "alive but without function."
Obviously, the female officer who shot Wright during the traffic stop made a mistake drawing her gun instead of the taser, but the reason that encounter ultimately turned deadly is because he resisted arrest and started fighting with police. The reason he was fighting with them is because he was a high-level, violent criminal, not a saint. While we can always find an incident when the police make a mistake, the fundamental problem here is that we have a plethora of violent criminals not locked up anyway.
When the leftists can't pin the blame on police, they seek to blame our gun laws, as one Illinois state legislator did in the Lafayette case. But the reality is that under Illinois law, Lafayette could not legally possess a firearm under any circumstance, yet managed to obtain one anyway. As I reported last week, Chicago in particular, which has the toughest gun laws, has released hundreds of violent gun felons, including convicted murderers, on supervised parole with too few cops to properly monitor them.
Everyone in the country will remember Officer Derek Chauvin in the Floyd case until the end of times, but almost nobody will ever know about people like Officer Oberheim and Officer Heacook, two policemen who were recently murdered by repeat violent offenders without even drawing their service weapons. The latter cases, when police use underwhelming force to their own detriment, are so much more common than the Floyd case, yet there is no effort to create a "BLM-style" revolution for strengthening the hand of cops, locking up gun felons, and celebrating the heroes who give their lives to protect the people.
This disconnect boils down to the most basic recognition of good and evil. The cultural elites have brainwashed a segment of the population into believing that so long as the color of a criminal's skin is dark, white cops and civilians who are forced into a violent confrontation with them forfeit their right to live and even their right to be honored after their sacrifice.
The results are devastating. With the cops on the ropes, there are now endless shootings in Minneapolis where stray bullets are now killing numerous innocent citizens. The latest is the death of 9-year-old Trinity Ottonson-Smith, who was killed by a stray bullet while playing on a trampoline. Yet the country will never know her name or the names of thousands of child victims of "police reform," even though these victims are a lot more innocent than Daunte Wright and George Floyd.
KG Wilson, whose 6-year-old granddaughter, Aniya Allen, was murdered by a stray bullet while eating McDonald's in her car in Minneapolis, aptly observed that "everybody's afraid to speak the truth" about what's happening in Minneapolis. "A black person who was killed by a white officer … that's something different. I personally don't think it was purposely done, but it was done and somebody needs to pay. But we need a movement right here for what's going on here; black people hurting, shooting and killing black people. People are afraid to tell the truth," he said.
Put simply, as Officer Oberheim's wife, Amber, said during her husband's funeral, "It's time to start honoring heroes and quit victimizing felons." Every other logical public policy decision flows downstream from there.NBA superstar Kyrie Irving, the starting shooting guard for the Brooklyn Nets, blamed racism after being targeted Sunday by a Boston fan with what police called a "dangerous weapon" — a water bottle.
What happened?
Police arrested 21-year-old Cole Buckley after he allegedly tossed a Dasani water bottle at Irving following a game between the Nets and Boston Celtics Sunday night. The Nets won the game and took a 3-1 lead in the NBA playoff series. Game 5 is Monday night at Brooklyn.
According to ESPN, the bottle "narrowly missed" Irving, who was leaving the court when the alleged incident took place. Still, police have charged Buckley with assault and battery by means of a dangerous weapon.
The fan was also permanently banned from TD Garden, the Celtics' arena.
"We have zero tolerance for violations of our guest code of conduct, and the guest is subject to a lifetime ban from TD Garden," a spokesperson for TD Garden said.
How did Irving respond?
The basketball star blamed racism, "entitlement," and a "human zoo" environment for the incident.
"It's unfortunate that sports has come to a lot of this kind of crossroads where you're seeing a lot of old ways come up," Irving said. "It's been that way in history in terms of entertainment and performers and sports for a long period of time, and just underlying racism and just treating people like they're in a human zoo, throwing stuff at people, saying things."
"I just wanted to keep it strictly basketball, and then you just see that people feel very entitled out here. They pay for the tickets, great, I'm grateful that they're coming in to watch a great performance," Irving added, "but we're not at the theater, we're not throwing tomatoes and other random stuff at the people that are performing."
Irving later added that he doesn't feel the players are treated like humans during their games.
"We keep saying we're human, we're human but we don't get treated like we have rights when we're out there sometimes and people feel entitled to go and do things like that," he said.
Before traveling to Boston, Irving stated publicly that he hoped he did not encounter racism in his return to Beantown. Irving previously played for the Boston Celtics between 2017 and 2019.
"I'm just looking forward to competing with my teammates, and you know, hopefully we can just keep it strictly basketball," Irving said. "You know, there's no belligerence or any racism going on, subtle racism, and people yelling [expletive beeped out] from the crowd."Elon Musk dominated the news cycle in early December when he announced he was moving his Tesla company from California to Texas.
Musk cited California's failing liberal policies that hamper successful businesses as well as the state's refusal to allow Tesla's factory to reopen during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Now, Tesla is finding out that at least one Texas policy is keeping the auto manufacturer from capitalizing on selling the cars it will be building in the Lone Star State.
Because the electric car company doesn't have franchise outlets for in-person sales but has only company-owned outlets, Tesla has found itself in what will be a bind once the Austin-based plant is up and running in the next year, The Drive reported.
The reason? Under Texas franchise law, automakers cannot sell cars directly to customers. Instead, they are required to sell their cars to third-party businesses — aka franchise dealerships.
Because Tesla doesn't have franchises, the company legally cannot sell cars in Texas — at least not in person — though many Texans have used loopholes in the past to purchase cars online and had them shipped to a Tesla service station in the state.
With the new plant that will be online soon, the situation will become more awkward and complicated: In order for a Texan to purchase a new Tesla, The Drive said, the company will have to ship the Texas-built vehicles out of state before selling and shipping back to Texas buyers.
The Texas Legislature had a chance to deal with this problem during its most recent session, but lawmakers didn't get around to it — though at least one bill was drafted to provide a narrow exemption for Tesla. However, the bill never got out of committee, The Drive said.
Adding to Tesla's headaches is the fact that the state legislature meets only once every two years, which means Musk and his people will have to wait until at least 2023 to get satisfaction, unless Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) calls for a special session to specifically address this issue.
As Texas began to wind down its legislative session last week, it became apparent that Tesla's concerns would not be addressed by the time the session closed over the Memorial Day holiday weekend.
This did not thrill Musk, who took to Twitter to politely nudge his state leaders, writing in response to The Drive's coverage, "Tesla sure would appreciate changing the law, so that this is not required!"
The company has a "Tesla Engage" page on its website urging customers to contact elected officials to "support direct sales" and make their voices heard on a number of other legislative priorities.
The New York Post said Tuesday that it contacted both Tesla and Gov. Abbott's office for comment on the Texas situation but did not receive responses.Children's show "Blue's Clues & You" released an LGBTQ-themed video on its YouTube channel showing an animated drag queen singing to kids about "two daddies," "two mommies," as well as "trans," "nonbinary," and "pan" family members to mark the start of Pride Month.
What are the details?
The drag queen in the video is an animated version of a real-life drag queen — Nina West — whom "Today" called a "beloved 'RuPaul's Drag Race' contestant from season 11."
West's character leads young viewers in a song about a "Pride Parade" — to the tune of "The Ants Go Marching" — and shows different groups of animals in a parade waving rainbow flags. The lyrics also include other LGBTQ buzzwords such as "ace" — which stands for "asexual" — as well as "queer," "bi," "pan," "allies," and "kings and queens."
"Hey, Blue! Look at all these families! Hi, families!" West's character begins. "It's time for a Pride Parade."
"Families marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah! Families marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah!" the first verse notes. "This family has two mommies, they love each other so proudly. And they all go marching in ... the big ... parade!"
The song continues with the "two by two" group of animals and ends with "ten by ten" as West's character sings, "Love is love is love, you see, and everyone should love proudly."
Here's the video:
The Blue's Clues Pride Parade 🏳️🌈 Sing-Along Ft. Nina West! youtu.be
Anything else?
According to TMZ, "the overwhelming reaction to this appears to be positive ... with many taking to social media to praise 'Blue's Clues' for being progressive — and taking proactive steps to teach kids about different family structures in a fun, catchy way that appeals to young children."
But the outlet noted that some are "clutching their pearls over this ... but they're mostly being drowned out by folks saying this is a great thing that Nick/Nick Jr.'s doing."
"Remember," TMZ noted, "Nickelodeon has already indicated that some characters in their own pantheon — including SpongeBob SquarePants — might just be part of the LGBTQ+ world themselves, or allies at least. So, it's really not that much of a stretch for them to get Blue onboard, too."
It isn't clear if the Pride Parade song is part of an actual episode or if it's a standalone clip separate from it. But it appears that Pride Month may have been a recent topic on a "Blues Clues & You" episode, as the little girl in the clip below shows her drawings of flags depicting "different parts of the LGBTQ+ community," including a "gay pride flag," a "nonbinary pride flag," a "lesbian flag," and a "transgender pride flag."
Yahoo Life noted that "Blue's Clues & You" went down this road even earlier, as the show posted a new alphabet song in February declaring that "P is full of Pride" with rainbow flags and other LGBTQ "signifiers."
Pushback
Joy Pullmann, executive editor of the Federalist, pushed back against the Pride Parade song and said it's part of the show's psychological strategy for indoctrinating children.
More from her piece:
A 2018 New York Times article points out that the highly popular show for two- to five-year-olds is so dedicated to repetition to impress its messages on children that each episode of "Blue's Clues" plays every day for an entire week. The producers also test each episode three times on focus groups of children before it airs.
The 2005 cover story for the Association for Psychological Science's publication Observer discusses the psychological techniques preschool shows use to impress what they believe are socially beneficial attitudes on viewers. Verbal repetition is one. Repetition throughout a child's environment — merchandizing a show's characters to meatspace products like classroom math exercises or Tickle Me Elmo dolls — is another.
This repetition and saturation strategy has clearly been deliberately used to normalize certain sexual behaviors and attitudes, both in children and adults. We've recently seen everything from a cross-dresser on "Sesame Street" to a gay wedding on PBS's children's show "Arthur." LGBT consciousness is so pervasive that Americans think six times as many people are LGBT as actually identify so, and each successive generation exhibits higher rates of LGBT identification.Hu Xijin, a top Chinese propagandist, declared recently that China should prepare for a nuclear showdown with the United States after President Joe Biden affirmed continued investigations into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What did Biden say?
Once decried as a conspiracy theory — despite a lack of evidence disproving the possibility — the Wuhan lab leak theory as the origin of the pandemic has gained significant footing in recent weeks, with high-profile scientists saying the possibility demands increased investigation.
Biden responded to growing confidence in the theory last week by calling on American intelligence officials to conduct more investigation into the pandemic's origin, including the possibility that COVID-19 leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
"The United States will also keep working with like-minded partners around the world to press China to participate in a full, transparent, evidence-based international investigation and to provide access to all relevant data and evidence," Biden said in a statement.
What did Hu say?
The Chinese propagandist, who edits the Beijing-controlled Global Times newspaper, responded to Biden's statement by saying China must prepare for a "high-intensity showdown" after citing China's nuclear armament.
According to Australia's Daily Telegraph, Hu's message was published to Sena Wiebo, China's Twitter-like social media platform.
The message, translated by Chinese human rights activist Jennifer Zeng, read, in part:
Given the intensifying US strategic containment of China, I would like to remind once again that we have many urgent tasks, but one of the most important is to keep rapidly increasing the number of nuclear warheads and strategic missiles like the Dongfeng 41 with extremely long-range and high survival capabilities. This is the cornerstone of China's strategic resilience against the United States.
We must be prepared for a high-intensity showdown between the US and China, at which point a large number of DF-41 and JL-2 and JL-3 will be the backbone of our strategic will. Our nuclear missiles must be so numerous that the US elite will tremble at the thought of military confrontation with China at that time.
The comments are particularly eyebrow-raising because Hu claims to speak for government officials who cannot speak publicly.
In fact, Hu explained in 2016 that he pals around with Chinese government officials and admitted, "They can't speak willfully, but I can," a suggestion that he broadcasts the sentiments of communist officials.
Hu similarly told CNN in 2019 that his newspaper and opinions reflect the views of the Chinese people.
"We say things out loud," Hu said. "You could call us radical or nationalistic, but we reflect true sentiments of Chinese society. You could learn the truth better through us."
Anything else?
China has vehemently denied that COVID-19 leaked from the Wuhan bio lab.
Beijing has claimed the pandemic originated in a wet market in Wuhan where the virus jumped from an infected animal to humans.
The communist government has also suggested the pandemic originated in America, their direct response to former President Donald Trump and former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo having claimed publicly that COVID-19 leaked from the Wuhan lab. Beijing has interpreted all suggestions that COVID-19 did not emerge naturally as acts of aggression.Despite repeated complaints from law enforcement organizations, "Blue Lives Murder" apparel is still being sold on Amazon nearly a year after the brazen anti-police merchandise first showed up on the online marketplace, the New York Post reported over the weekend.
As of Monday, several items displaying the hateful slogan — including a blue T-shirt being sold for $39.99, a black T-shirt, and face masks being sold for $14.99 and under — were available for purchase on Amazon's website.
The continued presence of the apparel, along with other gear that displayed the message "Blue Lives Aren't Real," has reportedly prompted renewed outrage from law enforcement.
In a recent letter obtained by the Post, the Detectives' Endowment Association, New York City's detective union, slammed Amazon for continuing to list the "disgusting" items online, arguing that by doing so the company was putting cops "at peril and risk."
"It has come to my attention that your website is selling tee-shirts (sic) and other items emblazoned with the words 'Blue Lives Murder,'" the organization's Chief Financial Officer Brian Olsavsky wrote in the letter. "It's disheartening that your company would allow this disgusting motto on your sales platform.
"[The apparel's] only purpose is to invite further division, hatred and violence toward the hard-working men and women of the nation's Police Departments, who are toiling every day to keep their communities safe," Olsavsky wrote. "To continue to hawk products emblazoned with this vile phrase puts the lives of Police Officers, and all law enforcement nationwide, at peril and risk."
In the letter, Olsavsky cited Amazon's own policy that states the retailer does not allow products that "promote, incite, or glorify hatred, violence, racial, sexual or religious intolerance, or promote organization with such views."
He also reportedly emailed the letter to individual detectives, encouraging them to "adapt" it and send their own version to the retailer as part of a coordinated campaign.
In a statement to the Post, one Staten Island detective charged, "Amazon is perpetrating anti-police rhetoric. It is totally inaccurate. They should sell shirts that say, 'Blue Lives Save Lives.'"
Another detective from Brooklyn said, "They are hypocrites. They say they don't sell items that incite hatred. I can't think of an item that incites hatred more than these sweatshirts."
Last year, Blue Lives Matter NYC founder Sgt. Joe Imperatrice first sounded the alarm about the apparel being listed on Amazon. Almost 12 months later, the products are still listed.Police in Charleston, South Carolina, are investigating after U.S. Congresswoman Nancy Mace's home and property at Daniel Island was vandalized with graffiti on Memorial Day.
"In the early morning hours of Memorial Day, my home, where I'm raising my two children, was vandalized with Antifa symbols and profanity," Mace, a Republican, tweeted Tuesday morning.
"Although my kids and I are thankfully fine, these criminal acts are unacceptable no matter your politics," she said.
Mace shared photos of her house, walkway, and sidewalk defaced with anarchist symbols and slogans.
"All politicians are bastards," one message said, a riff on the "All cops are bastards" slogan popular with anarchists and anti-authoritarian protesters.
"No gods no masters," another message said.
"Pass the PRO Act," another one stated, referring to a Democratic bill that would strengthen labor unions by overriding state right-to-work laws.
Mace thanked law enforcement for investigating the act of vandalism and noted this is the second time her home was targeted "in the last few months."
Last year, during her campaign for Congress, an unknown person scratched an expletive into her car door.
"There is a significant difference between nonviolent protests and criminal acts of intimidation and vandalism," she said. "I'm concerned for my neighbors who've been impacted by this appalling criminal behavior."
"I also want to take a moment to thank those same neighbors; so many have reached out to offer their assistance and support. I cannot thank the Charleston community enough," she continued.
"As I've had time to digest what has happened over the last 24 hours, I also wanted to take a moment to urge people to think about their words and their actions. It's not just social media, but our words impact real people and impact real lives. We should take it down a notch."
U.S. Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) shared Mace's tweet thread on Tuesday. "Acts of vandalism and hate are simply unacceptable and have no place in our society," he said.
Charleston police are collecting camera footage from around the neighborhood to identify suspects for their investigation, WCIV-TV reported.
Police power-washed the graffiti Monday morning, but Mace told the news station that at least some of her home will need to be repainted.
"It makes me incredibly sad. I'm a Mom, I have two kids in middle school who live here at this house with me. No family should ever be treated this way," she said.Progressive activists and several Democratic senators are throwing a tantrum and yet again are demanding an end to the filibuster after Republicans blocked a bill last week to create a "9/11-style" commission to investigate the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol.
U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W. Va.), like an exhausted parent, is telling them "no" for what seems like the millionth time.
After the Jan. 6 commission bill was filibustered, Manchin released a joint statement with Sen. Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.) imploring Republicans to work with Democrats to reach a bipartisan agreement to form the commission. But reporters insisted on hounding Manchin with questions on whether he would continue to oppose ending the filibuster.
"I'm not separating our country, OK?" an exasperated Manchin told them. "I don't know what you all don't understand about this. You ask the same question every day. It's wrong."
The 73-year-old lawmaker, who has the distinctive reputation of being the last moderate Democrat in the U.S. Senate, said ending the 60-vote requirement in the Senate would be tantamount to destroying the government by removing the need for both parties to cooperate to advance legislation.
This is at least the seventh time Manchin has made his position unambiguously clear since last July when he told CNN that then-candidate Joe Biden's openness to killing the filibuster was "bulls**t."
"The whole intention of Congress is basically to have a little bit of compromise with the other side," Manchin said July 23. "Our job is to find common and cooling ground, if you will, to make something work that makes sense."
But after Biden was declared the winner of the presidential election and since Democrats wrested control of the Senate from Republicans, Manchin has been asked about the filibuster again, and again, and again every time it becomes apparent that Republicans will oppose major pieces of President Joe Biden's left-wing agenda.
Even an April 7 op-ed Manchin wrote titled, "I will not vote to eliminate or weaken the filibuster," has not stymied the questions on his position, which were renewed as Senate Democrats prepare to go to political war this summer.
In June, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) is expected to bring up major pieces of the Biden agenda in the Senate. The Democratic overhaul of U.S. elections, the Equality Act, and gun control are all on the table as Schumer lays the groundwork to blame the Republican minority and the filibuster for stalling progress during Biden's first term ahead of the midterm elections.
"We have also seen the limits of bipartisanship and the resurgence of Republican obstructionism. ... Senate Democrats are doing everything we can to move legislation in a bipartisan way when and where the opportunity exists," Schumer wrote in a letter to his Democratic colleagues.
"The June work period will be extremely challenging. I want to be clear that the next few weeks will be hard and will test our resolve as a Congress and a conference," he said.
Several Democratic senators are already resolved to blame Republican obstruction and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and the filibuster for every failed Democratic effort in the weeks to come.
"Filibustering a bipartisan commission regarding the January 6 insurrection is a three-dimensional way to make the point that the filibuster is primarily a destructive force in American politics," Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) said last Tuesday.
The following Friday, Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) told NBC's "Meet the Press" that Senate Democrats should not tolerate Republicans using the filibuster.
"I think we should not perpetuate McConnell's bastardization of the Senate filibuster," he said.
It's unclear what Senate Democrats think they can do tangibly to circumvent the Republican minority's filibuster threats with both Manchin and Sinema opposed to changing the rules.
For now, it appears Democrats will rely on pressure from their base to change Manchin's mind.
"For some of my colleagues on the Democratic side, who support the filibuster in the extreme, we're going to have to have an explanation," Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, told The Hill. "Look at the extreme. It is just indefensible."
More than 50 progressive activist groups have banded together to create that pressure, issuing a joint statement last Friday calling on Democrats to end the so-called legislative "veto" of the Republican minority.
"The path forward is clear: The filibuster must be eliminated as a weapon that a minority of senators can wield to veto popular democracy-protecting bills," the statement said.
But without Manchin's support the filibuster will stay. Progressives and journalists have been badgering him about his position on the filibuster for nearly a year now.
He hasn't changed his mind.Actor Chris Pratt honored fallen U.S. soldiers in an emotional Memorial Day Instagram post shared on Monday.
What are the details?
The 41-year-old actor, who has always been outspoken in his love for America and its greatest defenders, shared a moving gallery of U.S. veterans who died in the line of service, as well as their loving family members and friends.
The actor captioned the post, which has been liked more than 2.9 million times at the time of this reporting: "America's exceptional armed forces have altered the course of the world for the better. From the Union Army defeating slave owning confederates, to the Greatest Generation and her Allies vanquishing the Nazis or our special operators hunting down the perpetrators of 9/11.
"We count the names of each fallen solider lest they be countless," the Marvel actor continued. "They are the good guys. They run to the sound of gunfire. They know pain and suffering we never will. They have given us the most free and decent society planet earth has ever seen."
Pratt pointed out that Americans "run the risk" of losing such decency when we fail to be grateful for the valiant sacrifices of their fellow American brothers and sisters, and said that it was imperative for Americans to pass on the stories of fallen soldiers to the country's next generation.
"We run the risk of losing that decency when we fail to instill gratitude in the minds of our youth or the perspective of what it actually means to be free — should they never learn of the selfless sacrifice of our armed service members in the face of oppressive evil," he added. "So join me in showing support for our fallen. Take a quiet moment to really consider the sacrifice."
Pratt concluded by pointing out to critics the country's blessing of free speech — which permits them to speak their mind about the state of the country without repercussion.
"[I]f you use the comments section on posts like this to bitch and moan about America please understand there are countries in the world where criticizing your government will get you killed or imprisoned," he wrote. "Criticism is a right and necessity in amending the flawed systems of man. So by all means, let your voice be heard. But never forget your right to free expression is paid for in blood. May God give their souls rest, and may they live in our memories this weekend and always."On "The Rubin Report," Glenn Loury, professor of economics at Brown University, joined BlazeTV host Dave Rubin to talk about why it's controversial for a black man to be against diversity and inclusion training, affirmative action, and reparations.
Glenn also shared his thoughts on the narrative of systemic racism and racial disparities, why it's wrong, and how the Democratic Party pushes lies to get the support of black voters.
In this clip, Glenn shares his thoughts on how Democrats have fanned the flames of the racism bogeyman in a cynical attempt to get more of the black vote.
"They're buying black votes by waving a bloody shirt of racism, that's what they're doing," Glenn said of the Democratic Party. "If we fall for this, we are fools. We're being led around with a ring through our noses. They show nothing but contempt for black people."
Glenn argued that if black people in this country want to start eliminating disparities, they need to stop using the issue of slavery to play the victim as that mentality only encourages society to lower the bar for black America.
"The racial conflict coming out of [the issue of] slavery threatens the existence of the republic," Glenn said. "Three hundred thousand people in a country of 3 million were slaughtered on the battlefields of the civil war. The consequence of which was the emancipation of the African slaves. Here we are now, 150 years later and the descendants of those slaves are citizens of the freest, richest and most powerful republic in the history of the world."
Glenn also explained why he believes former President Barack Obama missed many opportunities to engage the country in an honest conversation about race, and called out former first lady Michelle Obama for saying that she fears for the safety of her daughters.
Watch the video below to catch more of the conversation:
Want more from Dave Rubin?
To enjoy more honest conversations, free speech, and big ideas with Dave Rubin, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott vowed Monday to target state lawmakers' pay in response to actions by Democratic legislators that effectively killed an elections security bill in the state.
What are the details?
The Republican-controlled assembly was set to pass the legislation, S.B. 7, on Sunday night, when Democratic lawmakers staged a walkout from the chamber, denying the quorum needed before the midnight cutoff for final approval.
In response, Gov. Abbott threatened to hit the lawmakers where it hurts — their bank accounts.
"I will veto Article 10 of the budget passed by the legislature," the governor warned in a tweet, noting that "Article 10 funds the legislative branch."
"No pay for those who abandon their responsibilities," he said. "Stay tuned."
According to the Texas Tribune, Abbott has until June 20 to carry out the veto, which would affect state funding of lawmakers and their staffs starting Sept. 1. Funding of the legislative branch through the end of August is covered under the current budget.
The outlet noted that "state lawmakers are paid $600 a month, equal to $7,200 per year. They also get a per diem of $221 for every day they are in session, including both regular and special sessions."
What else?
Following Abbott's threat, Democratic lawmakers lashed out, criticizing the potential move as authoritarian.
Democratic state Rep. Donna Howard tweeted, "This would eliminate the branch of government that represents the people and basically create a monarchy."
Abbott reportedly added on Monday that he would call a special session of the legislature to pass the bill, though he did not specify a date when that would occur.
Similarly, Texas Republican House Speaker Dade Phelan defiantly stated, "We will be back — when, I don't know, but we will be back. ... There's a lot of work to be done, but I look forward to doing it with every single one of you."
Anything else?
The bill — which aims to protect elections against fraud in part by tightening rules surrounding early voting and mail-in voting — has been carelessly criticized by Democrats, including President Joe Biden, as an attempt to restrict voting access for minorities and low-income individuals.
The president lambasted the bill as "un-American" in a statement to the Texas tribune.
"Today, Texas legislators put forth a bill that joins Georgia and Florida in advancing a state law that attacks the sacred right to vote, " he said. "It's part of an assault on democracy that we've seen far too often this year — and often disproportionately targeting Black and Brown Americans."A black rights activist at a weekend rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, said that a time would come when black Americans would need to "kill everything white in sight."
What's a brief history here?
According to a Monday report from BizPac Review, groups of black nationalists gathered in Tulsa to mark the 100-year anniversary of the Black Wall Street Massacre. The race slaughter left at approximately 300 people dead in a Tulsa neighborhood once known as "Black Wall Street."
The attack, carried out by a purportedly all-white mob, left more than 10,000 people homeless and practically demolished 40 square blocks.
In a statement to KTUL-TV, Malik Z. Shabazz, keynote speaker at the convention and national president of Black Lawyers for Justice, said, "The 100-year anniversary of the Black Wall Street Holocaust is a rallying cry to all blacks that we must fight on every front to protect the legal and human rights of our people and we must unite and organize with a zealous fierceness never witnessed before."
The station also reported that the convention's theme was "Reparations Now!"
In an early May news release, the march's organizers said that the struggle for reparations "must be escalated."
"We must fight on every front to achieve redress and reparations for the atrocities committed upon Tulsa Massacre descendants; and we must intensify the fight to achieve reparations for all 40-million blacks still grossly affected by racism, inequality, wealth disparity, police brutality and the like," a portion of the statement read. "Tulsa will mark a new beginning in the upgraded fight for reparations for black people."
Public Radio Tulsa reported that "several hundred" demonstrators took part in the weekend activities.
What else happened?
The weekend events, according to the outlet, included a Second Amendment March for Reparations, in which many participants exercised their right to carry openly.
One video of the largely peaceful march, however, highlighted an activist calling for reparations and more.
"We're pushing death to white supremacy. Death to capitalism. Death to imperialism. And death to fascism," an unidentified man can be heard saying in the video. “We are pushing an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a head for a head, and a life for a life."
The man also said that black people were stolen from Africa to work as slaves for white people in colonial America.
“Once they die, we must understand that we can never give them the pain that they gave us," he insisted. “So once they get buried … once they are buried, we must bury them, dig them up and kill them again. Bury them. Dig them up. And kill them again."
His remarks caused the crowd to cheer.
Emboldened, the man continued, "Because that time will come when there's a rat-a-tat-tat. Black Americans will kill everything white in sight," and promised black Americans would give "crackers hell," "from the cradle to the grave."
Those groups leading the effort included the Huey P. Newton Gun Club, the Elmer Geronimo Pratt Gun Club, the New Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, the Fred Hampton Gun Club, the New Black Liberation Militia, the Panther Special Operations Command, and more.
Content warning: Rough language:
Anything else to know
President Joe Biden is reportedly set to visit Tulsa on Monday to honor the anniversary of the 1921 massacre, according to NPR.
According to the outlet, Biden is set to meet with centenarian massacre survivors to discuss their experience.
"He will also announce several steps aimed at narrowing the racial wealth gap, including ordering the federal government to direct more contracts to small, disadvantaged businesses," the outlet also reported.
Earlier in May, three massacre survivors testified before Congress about the attack.
"I will never forget the violence of the white mob when we left our home," Viola Fletcher told lawmakers. "I have lived through the massacre every day. Our country may forget this history, but I cannot."Actor John Cena's embarrassing capitulation to communist China last week did not produce the outcome that Hollywood executives had hoped.
What is the background?
Cena, of course, posted a video to Sena Wiebo, China's Twitter-like social media platform, apologizing to Chinese fans for calling Taiwan a "country" in a recent interview promoting "F9," the latest installment of the "Fast & Furious" franchise. The mea culpa was delivered in Mandarin, the official language of China.
Who prompted Cena to apologize is not clear, whether his own instincts or the demands of Hollywood executives who depend on Chinese ticket sales. However, the former WWE star, whose foray into the movie industry has been successful thus far, was immediately rebuked by Americans for, as it appeared, bowing down to China.
Disputed claims over Taiwan stem from the Chinese civil war in the last century, which was ultimately a fight between communism and democracy. China maintains its claims over Taiwan, yet the island is self-governed and has declared its own sovereignty.
What are the details?
Despite Cena's apology, ticket sales for "F9" plummeted in China following his Chinese nationalist faux pas, according to the Hollywood Reporter.
In fact, the movie generated $136 million in China during the opening weekend, but earned only $20.8 this past weekend, the second weekend the movie was played in Chinese theaters. That's a massive 85% decrease in ticket revenue.
And, despite the successful opening weekend, "F9" is now predicted to earn slightly more than just half of the two preceding "Fast & Furious" movies in China.
From the Hollywood Reporter:
After two laps, the Vin Diesel/John Cena action flick has totaled $185.3 million. That's slightly ahead of where franchise spinoff Hobbs & Shaw was sitting at a similar point in its China run, but far weaker than the preceding franchise mainstays Furious 7 and The Fate of the Furious, which topped out at $390.9 million in 2015 and $392.8 million in 2017, respectively.
Chinese ticketing app Maoyan currently projects F9 to finish at $211.9 million — certainly not a number to slouch at but far inferior to the franchise's recent heights, especially since China's theatrical market is back to full earning capacity (See the $825 million earned by local comedy hit Hi, Mom in February).
Reaction from Chinese fans to Cena's apology almost foreshadowed the hard crash in ticket sales.
"Please say in Chinese, 'Taiwan is part of China,' otherwise we won't accept [your apology]," the top comment on the video said, Newsweek reported.
"Then at least say Taiwan is China's. You're avoiding the issue and talking nonsense. You can't benefit from [the Chinese market] and trash it at the same time," another critic said.Authorities say that a 7-year-old Florida boy likely saved the lives of his father and his younger sister after the three were swept out and stranded in a river by dangerous currents.
What are the details?
According to a Monday CNN report, 7-year-old Chase and his father and sister were on the family's boat on the St. John's River in Jacksonville when the incident happened.
The father, Steven Poust, told WKXT-TV that the children were swimming when 4-year-old Abigail, who was wearing a life jacket, was swept away by a strong current. Chase, Steven said, immediately let go of the boat and tried to swim after his sister to keep her from drifting further down the river. He, too, became stuck, and Steven was forced to jump in to help them both.
As Steven swam toward his 4-year-old daughter, he directed Chase — who was not wearing a life jacket — to swim to shore for help.
It took the boy an entire hour to fight to shore, authorities said.
He told WKXT that he alternated floating on his back and doggie-paddling in order to preserve his strength, and when he finally reached land, he ran to a nearby home for help.
"I felt really scared," Chase told the station. "The current was going the opposite way of going to the boat and the shore so it was very hard to swim that way."
By that time, the current reportedly had dragged Steven and 4-year-old Abigail about a mile and a half to two miles away from the family's boat.
Steven said that he told both of his children that he loves them because he "wasn't sure" what the outcome would be.
"I tried to stick with both of them," he said. "I wore myself out. She drifted away from me."
Eric Prosswimmer, a spokesperson for the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department, said during a news conference on the dramatic rescue that the department used "every resource" to assist in the rescue.
"We had every resource we could have possibly had coming quickly and we're happy to say all three have been recovered, and all three are doing well," he explained. "We couldn't ask for a better outcome."
Prosswimmer noted that neither Chase nor his father were required to wear a life vest, as the state law applies only to children aged 6 years and under for a vessel under 26 feet.A vicious unprovoked attack on an Asian American woman was caught on surveillance video Monday and posted to social media by a New York state lawmaker.
The disturbing video was posted by New York Assemblymember Yuh-Line Niou on her Twitter account.
(CAUTION: Graphic video)
"This was just sent to me from my constituent," Niou tweeted. "This just happened in my district in Chinatown. He has been arrested and our precinct is investigating."
The video shows a scene outside the Kong Sihk Tong café where an Asian woman was walking before she is viciously punched in the face by a man who appears to be African American.
The woman falls backward onto the ground and stops moving while bystanders rush to attend to her.
"What are you looking at me for?" says the attacker bizarrely. "What do you mean?"
The victim is a 55-year-old woman, according to the New York Post. Police said she was taken to the NewYork-Presbyterian Lower Manhattan Hospital and was in stable condition.
The suspect was reportedly taken to Bellevue Hospital for a psychiatric evaluation, and charges against him are pending.
Niou said in a later tweet that the victim was "conscious and cognizant and alert." She added that the hate crimes unit was investigating the matter.
This latest attack on an Asian American is just one of many that have recently received more media attention. One report said that while overall hate crimes have declined, attacks against Asians increased by 150% in 2020, mostly in Los Angeles and New York City.
Many Asian Americans rushed to buy guns in March last year as threats against them increased over the coronavirus pandemic.
Here's more about Asian Americans:A 13-year-old girl from Portland, Oregon, was severely burned and will face months of rehabilitation after attempting a dangerous TikTok challenge that went awry, according to her family.
"I have parental controls on all her stuff, and it still wasn't enough," said Kimberly Crane, the mother of Destini Crane, to KATU-TV.
The teen was attempting to recreate a video from TikTok where a flammable substance is smeared on a mirror and then lit on fire in the dark, according to her family. They believe a bottle of rubbing alcohol caught on fire during the video.
"I was in the living room when she screamed my name and opened the bathroom door. Her body was on fire," her mother explained.
Destini suffered third-degree burns from the incident. She has been in the intensive care unit since she was burned on May 14 and has received a tracheotomy.
"It was unreal. Heartbreaking. I don't think anybody wants to see their daughter on fire. Horrible," Kimberly added.
Destini has also undergone skin grafts on her arm and neck. She will be hospitalized for at least another two months. The family has set up a GoFundMe account to help them with the teen's hospital bills.
The family said that parents should monitor what their children are doing on social media closely.
"It's really important to be present with your children, because we can monitor them, we have parental controls, we can do all that all we want, but things slip through," said Andrea Crane, Destini's sister.
Other dangerous TikTok challenges have alarmed fire officials, including one where children recorded themselves causing an electrical spark from a wall outlet.
Here's a local news report about the incident:A Dallas mall erupted in chaos after loud bangs were heard and people shouted that there was an active shooter inside. Police later determined it had been a person banging a skateboard on the floor.
Dallas Police Chief Eddie García told reporters in a media briefing Monday that officers had responded to calls about an active shooter in the food court of the NorthPark Center mall.
Videos posted to social media showed panicked shoppers running to the exits as an alarm blared out.
"As it turns out, it was a mentally disturbed individual with a skateboard in the middle of the mall, or in the middle of the food court, who started pounding the skateboard on the floor. That sound obviously caused a panic," García explained.
He said that the man then made gestures with his hands as if he were shooting into the crowd, which further exacerbated the panic.
García said that "off duty elements" confronted the individual minutes before on-duty officers also confronted him. He said that thousands of shoppers ran to exit the mall over the false alarm.
"We thank God that this was what it was," García added.
The official Twitter account of the mall also confirmed the details.
"Investigations are still ongoing, but at this time neither NorthPark nor the Dallas Police Department have found any evidence that anyone fired a gun on Monday afternoon. No injuries have been reported," the mall tweeted.
"An individual apparently banged a skateboard against the floor, causing a sound similar to gunfire. That individual is now in custody," the mall added in a second tweet.
No serious injuries were reported from the false alarm.
Here's a local news report about the incident:While many have been trying to hide any correlations and links between critical race theory and Marxism, one assistant professor openly admits that CRT is based on the teachings of socialist revolutionary Karl Marx.
Glenn Bracey, an assistant professor of sociology and criminology at Villanova, is a strong proponent of critical race theory because it has Marxist roots. Bracey made the admission during a remote discussion about critical race theory on Zoom. The seminar was posted on Villanova's official YouTube channel, which turned off comments on the video titled: "What is Critical Race Theory?"
Bracey appeared to promote critical race theory at the private Catholic institution by comparing the controversial ideology to religion.
"Given the power frankly of the church to move politics, given its funding, given how so many people come to the academy first with the church as a large backdrop in their lives, it's important that we as critical race theorists be able to speak to them on their terms," Bracey said, according to the Post Millennial. "So I would say that we as critical race theorists should continue to be aggressive in promoting critical race theory, that we should us say how it relates to spirituality and religion in particular."
Bracey then admits that the anti-racist ideology of CRT is rooted in Marxism.
"So the core question for critical race theory is one of releasing people, especially people of color, especially black people, from the oppressive systems that deny us access to our species being, including racism. It's Marxism," the assistant professor stated.
"Marxism is fundamentally a spiritual concern, and it's the same spiritual concern that Evangelical Christians have, and that they believe that all people are made in the image of God, and they are endowed by their creator with special abilities, creativity, individuality that needs to be manifested in the world," he said.
"So the church and critical race theory actually have the same purpose with respect to the Marxist origins, even though Evangelicals don't seem to recognize that," he added.
"Evangelical Christians are very upset about critical race theory because it is self-consciously grounded in Marxism," Bracey proclaimed. "Now, when Evangelical Christians hear critical race theory is grounded in Marxism, what they hear is, religion is opiate of the masses, that religion is a distraction from justice, that religion is nothing more than fictions that are—that make people deviate from reality."
"Racism is the everyday operation of our American system," Bracey declared. "Racism is permanent. Not because of objective reasoning … but because whites are fixated on blackness and anti-blackness, and they orient different other racial groups in the middle of white and black in order to protect their own superiority."
"In other words, racism is something that white people could decide to give up," he continued. "They could change the social [relationships], they could change the way that they, their anti-blackness, but they won't."
On Bracey's profile page on the Villanova website, he lists his "areas of expertise" as race and politics, sociology, Black Lives Matter, critical race theory, race and law, social movements, and Colin Kaepernick.
What is Critical Race Theory? www.youtube.comWe know that supposed conservative writer George Will infamously declared that he wants to see the Jan. 6 Capitol riot "burned into the American mind as firmly as 9/11 because it was that scale of a shock to the system."
We know that Huffington Post senior White House correspondent S.V. Dáte defended Will by saying the Jan. 6 Capitol riot was "1000 percent worse" than 9/11.
We know that Democratic lawmakers desperately want to slow-cook the Jan. 6 Capitol riot and investigate it as if it was on the scale of 9/11 — a desire that will have to fester a bit longer after the push failed to get off the ground in the U.S. Senate a few days ago.
But amid all of their politicizing, virtue-signaling short memories and short-sightedness, Debra Burlingame — sister of a pilot killed on 9/11 — splashed some cold water on leftist faces in a Wall Street Journal op-ed, telling them they're out of their minds if they believe honest Americans buy their tall tale that the Jan. 6 riot was in the same universe as 9/11.
What did Burlingame have to say?
"The attempt to reconfigure the 'domestic terrorist' narrative to fit the horrifying story of Sept. 11 is profoundly disheartening," Burlingame wrote. "These two events are fundamentally different in nature, scope, and consequences. Mentioning them in the same breath not only diminishes the horror of what happened on 9/11; it tells a false story to the generation of Americans who are too young to remember that day nearly 20 years ago."
She explained that her brother, Charles "Chic" Burlingame, was the pilot of American Airlines flight 77 and "was murdered in his cockpit at age 51 in a 6½-minute struggle for control of the airplane" — and then gave some facts to the fact-deprived.
More from her op-ed:
Members of Congress might have had a frightening day on Jan. 6, but on 9/11 some 200 people in the World Trade Center towers chose to jump from 80 to 100 floors above the ground rather than be consumed by fire. A woman waiting at a lobby elevator bank was burned over 82% of her body when jet fuel from the first plane sent a ball of fire down the elevator shaft and into the lobby. She spent three months in a hospital burn unit and was permanently disfigured.
There are countless harrowing stories like this—of death, destruction and heartbreaking loss. More than 3,000 children lost parents. Eight young children were killed on the planes. Recovery personnel found 19,000 human remains scattered all over lower Manhattan from river to river, including on rooftops and window ledges. Victims' remains were still being recovered years later by utility workers and construction crews. Some families received so many notifications of remains that they couldn't take it any more and asked for them to stop. More than 1,100 families received nothing. Their loved ones went to work that morning and disappeared.
The attack brought down our nationwide aviation system, shut down the New York Stock Exchange for days, destroyed or rendered uninhabitable 16 acres of Lower Manhattan including underground subway and commuter train lines and destroyed a section of the Pentagon. Rebuilding at ground zero is still incomplete, and U.S. troops are still in Afghanistan.
Burlingame then delivered a knockout blow to the gaslighting left: "On Jan. 6, Congress resumed its session that evening."
"It is deeply offensive and sad that the brutal and harrowing memories of the worst terrorist attack in American history are being deployed by political partisans," she added. "They are using 9/11 not as an example of what the American people endured and overcame together, but explicitly to divide, to stoke hatred, and to further a political agenda aimed at stigmatizing the other party and marginalizing ordinary Americans from participating in the political process. That is the real threat to democracy."
Anything else?
If that isn't refreshing enough to digest, Burlingame offered that there have been "real terrorist attacks on the Capitol. But those must be forgotten because they came from the political left." With that, she reminded us of the Weather Underground bombings of the Senate, Pentagon, and State Department in a four-year span in the early 1970s.
Here's a quick look at the unforgettable images of the Pentagon after hijacked flight 77 slammed into its side on 9/11:
AS IT HAPPENED - The 9/11 Pentagon Attack youtu.be
(H/T: Daily Caller)Ever since he was in high school, Rishi Sharma has dedicated his life to making sure that the stories of our World War II veterans are never forgotten. He's spent countless hours interviewing these men and documenting their firsthand experiences on his YouTube channel, "Legends of WWII" — and the timing couldn't be any better.
Rishi joined Glenn Beck on the radio program to warn that "they don't teach World War II in school any more, and what they do cover is 'brainwashing' young Americans to "hate our country, to hate our veterans, and our way of life."
"I can honestly tell you they don't teach World War II in school anymore. What they do cover is how 'bad' the U.S. was," Rishi told Glenn.
"I mean, people are being brainwashed nowadays. The younger generations are being brainwashed to hate our country, to hate our veterans, and our way of life. It's not right, and I don't want to see it happen any further. That's why I'm recording these stories of what these veterans actually went through, the atrocities that they came across. Whoever has that footage, is going to be able to control the narrative."
Rishi went on to share some of the shocking accounts of what really went on during WWII, which he learned through interviewing more than 1,100 veterans, and the devastating results of anti-American propaganda both then and now.
Watch the video clip below for more details, because we need these firsthand accounts now more than ever to teach our kids the truth:
Log into Facebook Log into Facebook to start sharing and connecting with your friends, family, and people you know.
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.The mainstream media did some major backpedaling this week on the potential origin of the coronavirus. After months of brushing off the possibility that COVID-19 escaped from a laboratory, left-wing journalists now admit that they are taking the Wuhan lab leak theory seriously, even after they said the theory was "debunked" months ago. Backtracking journalists are blaming former President Donald Trump and Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) for the media previously dismissing the now-feasible lab leak theory.
"I think a lot of people have egg on their face," ABC News chief Washington correspondent Jon Karl told Martha Raddatz on Sunday. "This was an idea that was first put forward by Mike Pompeo, secretary of state, [and President] Donald Trump, and look, some things may be true even if Donald Trump said them."
"Because Trump was saying so much else that was just out of control, and because he was, you know, making a frankly racist appeal talking about 'kung-flu,' and the 'China virus,' his notion ... he said flatly this came from that lab, was widely dismissed ... but now serious people are saying it needs a serious inquiry," Karl said on ABC's "This Week."
New York Times White House correspondent Maggie Haberman also tried to blame Trump and Pompeo for the media's failure to take the lab leak theory seriously.
"I think it is important to remember that part of the issue is when this was first being reported on and discussed back a few months after the pandemic had begun, was that then President Trump and Mike Pompeo, secretary of state, suggested they've seen evidence that this was formed in a lab and they also suggested that it was not released on purpose," Haberman said on CNN last week. "But they refused to release the evidence showing what it was and so because of that made this instantly political."
Washington Post reporter Aaron Blake wrote an article titled, "The vexing 'lab leak' theory on China and the coronavirus," which blamed Trump for the media's immediate dismissal of the lab leak theory.
"Given everything we know about how Trump handled such things, caution and skepticism were invited," Blake wrote. "That (very much warranted) caution and skepticism spilled over into some oversimplification, particularly when it came to summarizing the often more circumspect reporting."
Last week, Washington Post fact-checker Glenn Kessler posted an article titled, "How the Wuhan lab-leak theory suddenly became credible." The article stated, "The Trump administration's messaging was often accompanied by anti-Chinese rhetoric that made it easier for skeptics to ignore its claims."
However, a year earlier, Kessler told Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) on Twitter, "It is virtually impossible for this virus jump from the lab."
New York Times reporter David Leonhardt openly admitted that a "lot of people, including a lot of in the media, leaped to dismiss the lab leak theory because of where it was coming from, and the reality is we don't yet know how Covid started."
"I think people made this mistake. I think a lot of people on the political left and people in the media made this mistake and said 'Wow, if Tom Cotton is saying something, it can't be true.' Or they assumed that," Leonhardt told CNN's Brian Stelter. "And that's not right. Tom Cotton does deal in misinformation about things like election fraud, he's said some things that are just wrong. But that doesn't mean that everything he says is wrong."
"Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd conceded a "growing number of scientists are increasingly open to the lab leak possibility."
"And for many, the lab leak idea got tangled up in politics and conflated with the idea that the Chinese deliberately released the coronavirus into the world," the NBC host said.
Washington Post columnist Josh Rogin blasted the mainstream media for not practicing journalism and letting their "Trump Derangement Syndrome" get the best of them.
"Most MSM reporters didn't 'ignore' the lab leak theory, they actively crapped all over it for over a year while pretending to be objective out of a toxic mix of confirmation bias, source bias (their scientist sources lied to them), group think, TDS and general incompetence," Rogin wrote in a series of tweets on Saturday.
"Also, the lab leak theory didn't change. It didn't suddenly become credible. It didn't jump from crazy to reasonable," he continued. "The theory has always been the same. The people who got it wrong changed their minds. They are writing about themselves, with zero self awareness."
"All these reporters scrambling to defend their own records on the lab leak theory are exposing their own hypocrisy & ignoring their basic error. Just report the facts," he wrote on Twitter. "Don't act like its your job to tell us whats ok to think or talk about. Own up to it when you fail your readers."
The theory that the coronavirus originated from a lab has gained traction in recent weeks.
Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee say there is "significant circumstantial evidence" that COVID-19 originated from China's Wuhan Institute of Virology, and the Chinese military may have been involved.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, who last year "strongly" said coronavirus "evolved in nature and then jumped species," now says he is "not convinced" that COVID-19 emerged naturally, and he recommends an investigation into its origin.
Last week, President Joe Biden directed the U.S. intelligence community to "redouble" efforts to investigate the origin of the coronavirus pandemic.A Florida concert promotor insists he's not preventing unvaccinated fans from entering an upcoming punk rock show.
Those without the COVID-19 jab absolutely can enter VFW Post 39 in St. Petersburg to catch headliners Teenage Bottlerocket on June 26. All they have to do is pay $999.99.
As for fans who have been vaccinated, their tickets are $18.
"I'm not denying entry to anyone," promotor Paul Williams told the Washington Post. "I'm just offering a discount."
What are the details?
Of course, Williams' ticket prices fly in the face of Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis' recent executive order saying businesses aren't allowed to make patrons prove they've been vaccinated against COVID-19.
DeSantis also signed into law a bill threatening violators with fines in the thousands of dollars, the Post reported.
In reaction to Williams' $1,000 per ticket for unvaccinated concertgoers, the governor's office told the paper it's discriminatory.
"Charging higher ticket prices for individuals who do not furnish proof of vaccination unfairly discriminates against people who have enumerated rights under Florida law," Christina Pushaw, press secretary for the DeSantis' office, told the Post in an email.
Angry responses
Williams told the paper his tactic seemed safe, as the new law doesn't go into effect until after the show — but that didn't stop angry responses to the $1,000 ticket price.
The Post said Williams received anti-vaccination Facebook messages and spam calls, and the paper made special mention of a "misspelled email that warned the band their next show could be their 'last' and said: 'You're fans are going to kill you.'"
"I didn't know that caring about my community would make me Hitler," Williams told the paper, adding that he's notified law enforcement about the threatening email — and that he's not bending under what's become nationwide attention: "We're still sticking to our guns."
Williams even admitted to ABC News that he wanted the concert "to be a vaccine drive to get the fence-sitters off the fence. I wanted to get the kids that want to go to shows to go out and get their shots."
More from the Post:
A few of the "discount" tickets were left as of Saturday afternoon, he said; headliner Teenage Bottlerocket's website listed the St. Petersburg show as having sold out. None of the "standard" price tickets had sold.
Williams said attendees must present photo ID and a coronavirus vaccination card the day of the concert to enter at the lower price, which was reported by Creative Loafing: Tampa Bay.
Punk rock fan Brittney Wigen wants to go to the show, but she told WFTS-TV she's had COVID too recently to be able to get vaccinated in time.
Teenage Bottlerocket singer-guitarist Ray Carlisle told the station there's another option for Wigen: "Perhaps put together a Go-Fund-Me and all the other weirdo anti-vaxxers can help support you going to Teenage Bottlerocket for a thousand dollars. That's always an option."
Miguel Chen, bassist for Teenage Bottlerocket, told the Post that the band initially didn't believe Williams actually was charging $1,000 for unvaccinated fans: "When we first heard it, we thought it was a joke."
But Chen noted to the paper that his group soon agreed that if Williams thought this was "the best way to safely throw a party in his town, then we back him and we support it." Still, though, he told the paper, "I never in my life thought I'd be in a place where I'm getting threatened for trying to play music and spread joy."
Legal concerns
Legal experts told the Post that the ticket price disparity could be problematic.
Andrew Zelmanowitz, a Fort Lauderdale business lawyer, noted to the paper that the large price hike for unvaccinated ticket buyers "violates the spirit" of Florida's ban on requiring proof of immunization.
Eric Feldman — a University of Pennsylvania law school prof with expertise in health policy — told the Post that the $1,000 ticket price is "basically saying unless you show us proof of vaccine status, we're going to treat you really badly."
Here's Teenage Bottlerocket playing a 2019 show. Content warning: Language:Today is Memorial Day, a time to reflect on those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country as well as for our rights and freedoms. There have been at least 1.1 million Americans who have died in combat since 1775. Every one of those lives was meaningful and should be remembered on Memorial Day. There were two American heroes in World War II who had the distinction of bravely dying for their country and were also professional baseball players.
More than 500 professional baseball players served in the military during World War II, according to the National WWII Museum in New Orleans. Hall of Fame players such as Ted Williams, Stan Musial, Hank Greenberg, Bob Feller, and Joe DiMaggio garnered the most attention and praise for serving in the military during World War II. However, most people are not familiar with Elmer Gedeon and Harry O'Neill, the only two MLB players who died in combat during World War II.
Gedeon, a Cleveland native, was a three-sport star at the University of Michigan, playing football, track, and baseball. After college, Gedeon was signed by the Washington Senators as an outfielder. He played in five games for the Senators in 1939 and had 17 plate appearances, with three singles, one run scored, and an RBI. Gedeon was sent down to the minors in 1940, where his performance reportedly impressed Senators manager Bucky Harris, and it looked like he would return to the big leagues.
After the baseball season, Gedeon became the assistant coach for the University of Michigan football team in the fall of 1940 and hoped to play for the Senators in the spring. Gedeon was drafted into the U.S. military in January 1941, nearly a year before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
Gedeon was assigned to the Army Air Corps, and he was training in North Carolina. In August 1942, Gedeon was flying on a B-25 bomber that crashed during a training exercise. The military plane burst into flames during the crash landing. Despite being seriously injured and suffering three broken ribs, Gedeon freed himself from the wreckage and crawled out. Gedeon then went back into the fiery airplane to try to rescue Cpl. John Rarrat.
Rarrat died in the plane crash, as did two other military members.
"Gedeon spent 12 weeks in a hospital in Raleigh, recovering from severe burns, some of which required skin grafts," the New York Times reported. "Gedeon lost 50 pounds, received a medal and returned to action."
Gedeon believed he had had his brush with death and would be safe going into World War II, telling his cousin, "I had my accident. It's going to be good flying from now on."
He was a captain with the 394th Bomb Group of the United States Army Air Force, known as the "Bridge Busters" since their targets were "primarily road and rail bridges as well as gun emplacements, airfields, railway installations, fuel dumps and ammunition dumps."
From the NYT:
Gedeon usually sat at a desk, involved in planning missions in Europe. But he wanted to maintain his flying proficiency, so at dusk on April 20, 1944, Gedeon took off from Boreham, an airfield in Chesterfield, England, along with 35 other B-26 bombers, which were nicknamed Marauders.
Their destination was a construction site in the woods outside Esquerdes, France, near the northern coast. The target was a launch site for the V-1 rocket, the first of Adolf Hitler's terror weapons that he used against England. The mission was part of Operation Crossbow, a concerted effort to attack the V-1 bases.
At about 7:30 p.m., after Gedeon's plane had dropped its bombs — most were later determined to have missed the target — antiaircraft fire ripped through its undercarriage. The B-26 burst into flames.
The only crewman to escape was Gedeon's co-pilot, James Taaffe. He was captured on the ground and imprisoned. He was told that his six crew mates, including Gedeon, 27, had died.
Gedeon was given a proper burial at Arlington National Cemetery.
Harry O'Neill attended Gettysburg College, where he was also a three-sport star. O'Neill, a Philadelphia native, led his school to league championships in basketball, football, and baseball. After graduating college, he signed with his hometown Athletics as a catcher.
O'Neill was the team's third-string catcher and played in one game during the 1939 season. "During the ninth inning of a July 23, 16-3 drubbing at the Detroit Tigers' hands, [Earle] Mack inserted O'Neill into the lineup as a defensive replacement, but he never got a turn at bat," according to the Herald Courier. O'Neill spent the next two seasons in the minors.
After the Pearl Harbor attack, O'Neill enlisted in the Marines. Following training, O'Neill was deployed to the Pacific theater of WWII. In July 1944, he suffered a debilitating injury from shrapnel that kept him out of commission for three weeks, and he was awarded the Purple Heart.
In February 1945, only months before the end of World War II, O'Neill and his 25th Marine Regiment landed on the Japanese island of Iwo Jima.
"Eleven days after Americans raised a flag atop Iwo Jima's Mount Suribachi, O'Neill, 27, and fellow Marines engaged in a daylong battle in the bloody Turkey Knob section of Iwo Jima," according to the New York Times. "In the early evening of March 6, 1945, O'Neill stood in a deep crater that seemed to provide some cover."
Standing next to O'Neill was Pfc. James Kontes.
"We were standing shoulder to shoulder," Kontes told the Bucks County Courier Times in 2009. "Harry was on my left. We were looking out at the terrain in front of us. And this shot came out of nowhere."
O'Neill was shot and killed by a sniper.
In July 1947, O'Neill's remains were returned to the U.S. and buried at Arlington Cemetery in Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania.
This and every Memorial Day, remember to pay your respects to our fallen heroes and honor these patriots who made the ultimate sacrifice.Democratic New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has received an earful of anger for using Memorial Day weekend to remember "essential workers" who died of COVID-19.
What are the details?
Cuomo's order issued last week directed flags on state government buildings to fly at half-staff and state landmarks to be lit red, white, and blue on Sunday "to honor the essential workers who lost their lives due to COVID-19. Flags will remain at half-staff until noon and landmarks will remain lit on Monday, May 31, for Memorial Day in honor of the service members who lost their lives fighting to defend our country."
The governor noted during a press conference that "we remember those who gave their lives on Memorial Day. Gave their lives for this country. Fought for freedom because freedom isn't free. I also think we should remember this past year, on Memorial Day, remember the 42,000 New Yorkers who died. 42,000. Remember the 1,000 essential workers who died giving their life. Giving their life."
'Sickening'
Rockland County Executive Ed Day — a former first responder — told News 12 The Bronx that the county wouldn't take part in the Sunday directive, calling the decision a "sickening effort to co-opt the true meaning of Memorial Day."
Others had similar reactions.
Gold Star wife Michelle Garcia — who lost her husband Justin in Iraq in 2006 when she was six months pregnant with their son — told the station she was outraged by Cuomo's directive and wrote him a letter asking him to reconsider.
"We have Memorial Day to honor our fallen, and we have Veteran's Day to honor our veterans," Garcia told News 12. "Our essential workers do deserve that, but our fallen heroes deserve this weekend and Memorial Day to be about them."
WGRZ-TV said it asked Dan Frontera — an Iraq war veteran and organizer of the Afghanistan-Iraq Memorial at the Buffalo Naval Park — and David Whipple, who lost his son Blake in Afghanistan, about Cuomo's decision.
"There are a number of days that recognize the military, but Memorial Day is the only day that recognizes the fallen soldiers, Navy, and it's all about them," Whipple told WGRZ.
Image source: WGRZ-TV video screenshot
Whipple added to the station: "And to take another group, a deserving group, and co-mingle that with these folks, for over 200 years, who have fought for our freedom, lost their lives? No, I disagree with the decision to co-mingle, even if it's Saturday, Sunday versus Monday. That weekend is Memorial Day weekend. That's for a special group and we ought to keep it that way."
Frontera told WGRZ, "Yes, recognize the people who were there to support COVID. Recognize the first responders, the nurses, the doctors who gave everything they had."
Image source: WGRZ-TV video screenshot
However, Frontera added to the station, "But this holiday, this weekend, when you raise your glass, when you have your barbecue, it's not about them. It's about the young men and young women who gave their lives, who will be forever young, in the service of this nation. It's not about what Governor Cuomo wants, not at all."
Did anyone like Cuomo's move? Why, yes — a union president
News 12 said 32BJ Union President Kyle Bragg noted that "some workers made the ultimate sacrifice, including over 150 of our union's members. We thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for honoring their lives and sacrifices by including them in New York State's Memorial Day tribute."
Did Cuomo's office have anything to add?
WGRZ reached out to Cuomo's office about his decision, and the station said Rich Azzopardi — the governor's senior adviser — offered the following response: "Memorial Day, which honors soldiers who paid the ultimate price to defend this nation, is Monday‎ and we are honoring those who stayed on the front lines and paid for it with their lives to help us fight this pandemic the day before. This isn't either/or and surely there is enough space in our hearts to honor all these heroes in one weekend."Transgender woman weightlifter Laurel Hubbard competing in the upcoming Tokyo Olympic Games is "like a bad joke" to biological female athletes, a rival weightlifter told Inside the Games.
What are the details?
"First off, I would like to stress that I fully support the transgender community, and that what I'm about to say doesn't come from a place of rejection of this athlete's identity," weightlifter Anna Van Bellinghen of Belgium told the sports website.
But she soon added that "anyone that has trained weightlifting at a high level knows this to be true in their bones: this particular situation is unfair to the sport and to the athletes," Inside the Games said.
Van Bellinghen, 27, is looking to qualify in the same weight category as New Zealand's Hubbard — the over-87-kilogram super-heavyweights — and is directly affected by the presence of Hubbard, who's set to become the first openly transgender athlete to qualify for the Olympics in any sport, the website reported.
Hubbard, 43 — a biological male who identifies as female and has competed against women for several years — began transitioning to female at age 35.
It would seem Van Bellinghen's complaints about Hubbard go against the wishes of the powers that be, who allegedly want those who disagree with Hubbard's presence to be quiet about their concerns — but she went for the jugular anyway.
Van Bellinghen pointed out to Inside the Games that it's widely known athletes can retain the benefit of taking steroids even years earlier — so therefore "why is it still a question whether two decades, from puberty to the age of 35, with the hormonal system of a man also would give an advantage [in competing against women]? I understand that for sports authorities nothing is as simple as following your common sense, and that there are a lot of impracticalities when studying such a rare phenomenon, but for athletes the whole thing feels like a bad joke."
She added to the sports website that Hubbard's presence means "life-changing opportunities are missed for some athletes — medals and Olympic qualifications — and we are powerless. Of course, this debate is taking place in a broader context of discrimination against transgender people, and that is why the question is never free of ideology. However, the extreme nature of this particular situation really demonstrates the need to set up a stricter legal framework for transgender inclusion in sports, and especially elite sports. Because I do believe that everyone should have access to sports, but not at the expense of others."
Anything else?
Hubbard made a splash in 2017 after winning two silver medals in a women's world championship — and then in 2019 took home two gold medals and a silver medal in the women's competition at the Pacific Games in Samoa.
In 2015, IOC guidelines ruled that transgender athletes can compete as women if their testosterone levels are below 10 nanomoles per liter for at least 12 months before their first competition, Reuters reported.
But numerous scientists have criticized these guidelines, saying they do little to mitigate the biological advantages of those who have gone through puberty as males, including bone and muscle density, Australia's 7 News reported.
Here's Hubbard in action in early 2020:The coronavirus pandemic, along with the regular protests and riots in American cities, fueled a buying binge of guns across the nation. The uncertainty of 2020 spurred unprecedented gun sales in the United States, including a wave of new gun owners, especially among minorities and women.
Last year ended up being the highest gun sale year since the current record-keeping system went into effect, according to USA Today. Gun sales skyrocketed 40% in 2020 compared to 2019, with a record 39,695,315 background checks conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The gun buying surge has continued into 2021 in a major way. In January, which is when Joe Biden was inaugurated as president, U.S. gun sales soared 60% to 4,137,480, the largest single month since figures started to be recorded in 1998.
"There was a surge in purchasing unlike anything we've ever seen," Dr. Garen J. Wintemute, a gun researcher at the University of California at Davis, said. "Usually it slows down. But this just kept going."
But the gun spending spree isn't reserved for only gun enthusiasts who are stocking up in fear of a Democratic president who has already proclaimed that he will sign an executive order on gun control, which would roll back Second Amendment rights. Plus, Democrats previously introduced a bill to create a mandatory and publicly accessible registry listing the names of gun owners, how many guns they have, and where they keep their firearms.
"Not only were people who already had guns buying more, but people who had never owned one were buying them too," the New York Times reported. "New preliminary data from Northeastern University and the Harvard Injury Control Research Center show that about a fifth of all Americans who bought guns last year were first-time gun owners."
The research found that new gun owners were less likely to be the typical demographic of white males: Half were women, one-fifth were black, and one-fifth were Hispanic.
Stephen Gutowski, founder of The Reload, a publication on America's firearms policy, told NPR, "I think it's actually a - part of a larger trend. We've seen this going on for over a decade now. Gun owners have become more suburban. They've become less white and less male and younger over that time period. And what you saw last year was just an acceleration of that."
The General Social Survey, a public opinion poll conducted by a research center at the University of Chicago, found that 39% of American households own guns, up from 32% in 2016.The founder of a Black Lives Matter chapter has revealed in a newly published video that he quit the organization after he "learned the ugly truth" about the organization.
What are the details?
Rashard Turner founded the BLM chapter of St. Paul, Minnesota, in 2015. He explained in his video that he had hoped the organization would promote the dignity of black lives.
"I am living proof that no matter your start life, quality education is a pathway to success. I want the same success for our children in our communities. That's why in 2015, I was a founder of Black Lives Matter in St. Paul," Turner explained in the video. "I believed the organization stood for exactly what the name implies, black lives do matter."
Unfortunately, Turner said he quickly learned Black Lives Matter the organization "had little concern" for promoting the welfare of black lives.
"After a year on the inside, I learned they had little concern for rebuilding black families, and they cared even less about improving the quality of education for students in Minneapolis," Turner explained. "That was made clear when they publicly denounced charter schools alongside the teachers union."
"I was an insider in Black Lives Matter. And I learned the ugly truth," he added. "The moratorium on charter schools does not support rebuilding the black family. But it does create barriers to a better education for black children. I resigned from Black Lives Matter after a year and a half. But I didn't quit working to improve black lives and access to a great education."
The Truth Revealed about BLM youtu.be
What have others said?
Black mothers of people who have been killed by police — and allegedly helped by BLM in the aftermath — are also speaking out against BLM.
Samaria Rice — the mother of Tamir Rice, the 12-year-old boy fatally shot by Cleveland police in 2014 — accused BLM of exploiting black deaths, the New York Post reported.
"They are benefiting off the blood of our loved ones, and they won't even talk to us," Rice said.
Meanwhile, Tamika Palmer, the mother of Breonna Taylor, blasted the Louisville chapter of BLM in April and called it a "fraud."
"I could walk in a room full of people who claim to be here for Breonna's family who don't even know who I am, I've watched y'all raise money on behalf of Breonna's family who has never done a damn thing for us nor have we needed it or asked so Talk about fraud," Palmer said.Baltimore students who failed this year during the coronavirus pandemic will not be held back. Instead, they will receive a passing grade and graduate to the next level, the city's school board recently announced.
Baltimore students who failed classes during the 2020-2021 school year will still pass on to the next grade will not be penalized. The announcement was made during Tuesday's virtual school board meeting.
"As we approach the end of the 2020-2021 school year, we all recognize that students have experienced incredibly significant challenges and interruptions in their learning," said Baltimore City Public Schools CEO Sonja Santelises. "With that in mind, the district has developed a fair and straightforward process for evaluating and recording students' progress in the current school year."
"In all of these instances we want to emphasize the word 'yet," Santelises said. "Not completed yet. No credit yet."
"Community and school members have been evaluating grading methods that reflect the 'unique circumstances' that 'Black people have faced,'" Fox News reported.
Baltimore City Schools Chief Academic Officer Joan Dabrowski said during the meeting that the district is committed to its students and recognizes "the challenges they have faced this academic school year."
"We are going to avoid the punitive approach to failing students and the default reaction to unfairly retain students," she said. "Instead, we are going to … commit to our students as we plan for a multi-year academic recovery."
Pre-K, kindergarten, and first-grade students will have no changes to the grading system. For grades two through five, any student who received an "unsatisfactory" grade would have it changed to a "not complete" grade. Students who failed middle and high school levels would receive a "No Credit," which means that the students didn't actually pass their school course, but would still advance to the next grade level. Failing students would be given an opportunity to complete their "NC" classes to earn credits over the summer.
Maryland's Lt. Gov. Boyd Rutherford sounded the alarm about the possible negative implications of passing children to the next grade who failed this year during the COVID-19 pandemic.
"There's so much learning loss that occurred this last year as well as just people falling through the cracks, I think that we are just pushing a problem down the road that we are all going to deal with and in another couple of years," Rutherford told WBFF-TV. "I think it's creating a major challenge going forward."
Rutherford pointed out the flaws in the Baltimore school system's decision to pass all students regardless of merit.
"I understand that they're not going to get a failure on their transcript, but they won't get credit. It's almost the same thing," Rutherford noted. "I don't see how you can move to the next grade if you're not getting credit."
"We've already had a challenging situation with many of our school districts, particularly Baltimore City, and it's going to be even worse" Rutherford warned.
A 2019 report found that Baltimore City Schools were the third-most funded school system in the United States with $16,184 being paid per student. Despite the money pouring into Baltimore's education system, the report ranked Baltimore as the third-lowest performing large school system in America.Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg admitted Sunday that continued face mask requirements on public transportation under the jurisdiction of federal regulators is a "matter of respect" — not science.
Just last month, the Transportation Security Administration extended face mask requirements "across all transportation networks throughout the United States, including at airports, onboard commercial aircraft, on over-the-road buses, and on commuter bus and rail systems through September 13."
The requirement went into effect on Feb. 1, less than two weeks after President Joe Biden's inauguration.
What did Buttigieg say?
Despite proponents of pandemic-related restrictions arguing protective measures are necessary because science supports them, Buttigieg said Sunday that continued restrictions on transportation is not a matter of science at all.
Buttigieg's admission came despite the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention saying that fully vaccinated people can basically return to normal life, which now includes more than half of all U.S. adults. Most states and municipalities have responded by dropping most, if not all, pandemic related restrictions or announced intentions to do so in the near future.
During an interview on ABC's "This Week," host Martha Raddatz questioned Buttigieg why federal transportation guidelines deviate from CDC recommendations.
Buttigieg claimed "the differences have to do with the physical space" and alleged restrictions are "driven by public health considerations," but said that, ultimately, continuing to wear a face mask and follow pandemic-related restrictions the CDC says are no longer necessary for fully vaccinated Americans is about "respect."
"It's a matter of safety but it's also a matter of respect," Buttigieg said. "And as we get back and as we're so thankful to get back to the skies, to get back on the road, to get back to loved ones, let's make sure we are doing it in a way that we can all be proud of."
'There’s movement in the right direction' on an infrastructure deal: Buttigieg | ABC News youtu.be
In a separate interview on CNN's "State of the Union," host Jake Tapper asked Buttigieg what science supports continued pandemic restrictions on transportation.
Buttigieg, however, did not directly answer the question, other than restating the premise of the question — that public health rules are currently different on airplanes and trains.
"The Biden administration says you will always follow the science. What science is there that says that a fully vaccinated person needs to wear a mask on a plane or a train or a bus?" Tapper asked.
"The public health guidance is a little bit different for situations like planes and trains," Buttigeg responded.
"Of course, these rules and regulations and these bodies of guidance always evolve with the science," he added. "But the bottom line is, we have a set of rules in place to keep people safe. And I really hope that travelers will respect flight attendants, bus operators, workers, anybody who is simply doing their job to keep people safe."Despite Donald Trump being out of the White House for precisely 130 days, and him being deplatformed from every major social media network, the media can't seem to quit Trump. In articles about President Joe Biden, the press often mentions former President Donald Trump.
The Pew Research Center released new data on how media coverage of Biden also includes mentions of Trump. Between Jan. 21 and March 21, half of the articles from left-leaning outlets about the Biden administration cite Trump. Even 47% of Biden stories targeting right-leaning audiences reference Trump.
As expected with a presidential transfer of leadership, "Trump figured into 72% of all stories the first week of the Biden presidency, and as many as half of all stories for the first six weeks of the newly inaugurated Biden administration," the Daily Wire notes. But even into the ninth week of the Biden presidency, 42% of stories about the Biden administration also referred to Trump.
The media refrained from talking about Trump from March 1-5, only referring to the former president in 30% of the articles fixated on the Biden administration.
"The same week that Neera Tanden withdrew her name as Biden's nominee to head the White House budget office, Democrats agreed to limitations on stimulus check eligibility and Senate Democrats overcame an impasse on unemployment benefits to advance a COVID-19 relief plan," the Pew Research Center wrote. "Also in the news that week were an end to mask mandates in Texas and Mississippi, a high-profile interview between Meghan Markle and Oprah Winfrey, and reports that several Dr. Seuss books ceased publication due to concerns about negative racial imagery."
The media invoke the Trump's name more or less depending on the topic of the article that is centered around Joe Biden.
"About six-in-ten stories that mentioned COVID-19 in a minor way (61%) also referenced Trump," the Pew Research Center stated. "The same was true for more than half of stories that did not mention the virus at all (56%). But the percentage falls to 34% among stories that mentioned COVID-19 in a major way."
In stories focusing on Biden's "leadership and character," 56% of them that also mentioned Trump. When discussing "policy agenda," 44% of Biden articles also referred to Trump.
In Joe Biden articles about immigration, one of Trump's keystone issues, the former president was mentioned in 68% of the posts. However, when articles focused on the economy, another major focal point of the Trump administration, the media only mentioned Trump 29% of the time in Biden stories.Bill Maher, host of HBO's "Real Time," staunchly defended Israel and its right to defend itself from Hamas terrorists in Gaza on Friday, rebuking progressives who condemn Israel and claim that Israel is guilty of "war crimes."
What is the background?
Progressives, from far-left lawmakers to celebrities like supermodels Gigi and Bella Hadid, vocally condemned Israel's military campaign against Hamas terrorists in Gaza this month, which was initiated after the terrorists began launching missiles into Israel.
The state of Israel even accused Bella Hadid of "advocating for the elimination of the Jewish State" for allegedly invoking the phrase "from the river to the sea, Palestine will be free," which Israel explained "is a phrase used by those who call for the elimination of Israel."
What did Maher say?
During a panel discussion that involved New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristof, Maher strongly upheld Israel's right to defend itself from Hamas terrorists.
When Kristof accused Israel of "engaging in possible war crimes in Gaza," Maher immediately interrupted.
"Well Gaza fired 4,000 rockets into Israel, what would you say Israel should have done instead of what they did?" Maher said.
Kristof responded by claiming Israel's response to Hamas "was probably a war crime because [Israel] did not sufficiently avoid civilian casualties." Maher immediately shot back, pointing out that Hamas intentionally operates from civilian areas.
Maher then gave a history lesson about Jewish occupation of the southern Levant, noting that Israelites controlled the area more than 1,000 years before Arabs ever arrived there, to rebuke accusations that Israelis are "occupiers" or that they are operating an "apartheid" state.
But I don't know how well you respond to when– I mean, what if Canada, fired 4,000 rockets into America. Or Mexico, which is even better analogy, because we actually did steal the land from Mexico. I would submit that Israel did not steal anybody's land. This is another thing I've heard last couple of weeks. Words like "occupiers" and "colonizers" and "apartheid," which I don't think people understand the history there.
The Jews have been in that area of the world, since about 1,200 BC, way before the first Muslim or Arab walked the earth— 1,000 years before. I mean, Jerusalem is their capital. OK, so if it's just about who got there first, it's not even close. There has been a continuous Jewish presence. Yes. The Jews were the ones who were occupied by everybody. The Romans took over at some point, and then the Persians and the Byzantines and then the Ottomans. So yes, there was colonization going on there. Beginning in the 19th century, they started to return to Palestine, which was never an Arab country. There was never a country called "Palestine" that was a distinct Arab country.
Maher then pointed out, "Hamas's charter says they just want to wipe out Israel, their negotiating position is: 'You all die.'"
Later, Maher responded to progressive celebrities who support Palestine, claiming they would "run screaming to Tel Aviv if they had to live in Gaza for one day."
"As far as Gaza goes, it's amazing to me that the progressives think that they're being progressive, by taking that side of it, the Bella Hadid's of the world, these influencers. I just want to say, in February of this year, a Hamas court ruled that an unmarried woman cannot travel in Gaza without the permission of a male guardian. Really? That's where the progressives are?" Maher mocked. "Bella Hadid and her friends would run screaming to Tel Aviv if they had to live in Gaza for one day."A white teacher proclaimed that she is "dismantling white supremacy in society" by not teaching Spanish to her students. The anti-racist teacher proclaimed that she is holding herself accountable for her skin color by grappling with her own "internalized white supremacy."
Jessica Bridges is a Ph.D. candidate at the College of Education and Human Sciences at Oklahoma State University. She made "anti-racism and white women's complicity" her dissertation topic.
Bridges spoke at Southern Connecticut State University's Virtual Women's and Gender Studies Conference, a two-day event in late April that focused on "Gender, Race, Community & Conflict: Pursuing Peace and Justice." The conference included presentations such as "Diverging Feminisms: Engaging Transnational/Translational Activism," "Sex, Work, & Care as Resistance in the Age of Capitalism," "Undoing the White Settler-Colonial Gaze: Asserting Gendered, Racialized, and Radicalized Body Autonomy," "Understanding Your Vicarious Trauma during COVID-19 and Beyond," and "Igniting Social Justice, Community Engagement, and Diversity within the Neoliberal Academy."
Bridges spoke during the "White Accountability & Anti-Racist Education" presentation.
The meeting started off with a "land acknowledgment," which is a "formal statement that recognizes and respects Indigenous Peoples as traditional stewards of this land and the enduring relationship that exists between Indigenous Peoples and their traditional territories," according to Northwestern University.
"Dismantling white supremacy in society looks like dismantling in my heart, first," Bridges said, as reported by the Post Millennial. "It means I'm not going to teach Spanish. Accountability is ongoing because there is not end to the process."
It should be noted that the Spanish language came from Europe. It was a mix of Latin language and local languages of the inhabitants of the Iberian Peninsula, including Celts and Iberians, according to Lingvist.
"Learning Spanish from a white woman? I wish I could go back and tell my students not to learn power or correctness from this white woman," she said of herself. "I would tell them to stand in their own power. White isn't right."
Bridges continued, "Racism originates with, and is perpetuated by white people."
"We're deconstructing our emotions around acknowledging our whiteness and white privilege through the lens of grief and the process of grief," Bridges declared. "I have been complicit as a part of the educational system and as a white woman benefitting from white privilege."
"We talked about mourning our white morality. I'm holding myself accountable to this journey," Bridges added. "Part of my accountability is to continue to struggle and grapple with my internalized white supremacy."
Bridges said that as a K-12 teacher, she has been "embedded in a system that some scholars have identified as reproducing social injustice. Consciously, or unconsciously."
Bridges pledged to be a "white ally" and "anti-racist coconspirator."
Also during the critical race theory-themed session, a Southern Connecticut State University professor said schools need to "attract anti-racist teachers," who "teach through an equity, anti-racist lens." She also claims that test scores shouldn't be the barometer of "good schools," but instead quality learning institutions are measured by the "perspective of teachers being engaged in communities."
The full "White Accountability & Anti-Racist Education" presentation can be seen below.
2021 WGS SCSU Conference Session B4: White Accountability & Anti-Racist Education www.youtube.com
RELATED: Woke Oregon teacher warns colleagues they'll be 'fired' if they don't 'come to the light' and become 'anti-racist'
RELATED: White assistant dean, who hates whiteness, tells white people to 'shut up,' says 'all white people are racist'Vice President Kamala Harris triggered a barrage of backlash Saturday after publishing a Memorial Day weekend message that lacked any mention of the meaning behind Memorial Day.
What is Memorial Day?
Memorial Day is a federal holiday remembering Americans who paid the ultimate sacrifice in military service to the United States. The holiday is observed on the last Monday each May, and has been observed in some form or fashion since the mid-1800s.
Memorial Day is different from Veteran's Day in that the latter holiday honors all veterans, living or deceased, who honorably served in the armed forces.
What did Harris say?
Posting a picture of herself smiling, the vice president said, "Enjoy the long weekend."
There was no mention of Memorial Day or the reason why Americans annually get a "long weekend" before the start of summer.
What was the reaction?
Critics were quick to remind Harris that Memorial Day is not about enjoying a "long weekend," but about remembering those men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for American freedom.
"It is Memorial Day weekend. This weekend is our time as a nation to honor our Fallen. It is our dedicated time to reflect on our war fighters, those who paid the ultimate price for our Freedom," Code of Vets, a veteran advocacy organization, told Harris.
"It's just a 'long weekend' for this fraud. I have several dead buddies that disagree," Buzz Patterson, a Republican congressional candidate, said.
"...and pay tribute to the courageous men and women of our nation's military who sacrificed their lives in defense of our freedoms and liberties," Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.) corrected.
"Real misfire here. It is a long weekend. It's also Memorial Day weekend, which means far more that our government officials should acknowledge: a time to remember and honor the millions of Americans who lost their lives in our nation's defense," Paul Szoldra, editor of military news website Task and Purpose, said.
"As the proud daughter and granddaughter of 2 vets, I'm disgusted by Kamala's ignorance about Memorial Day. This clueless woman should never be one step away from the Presidency," Fox News host Jeanine Pirro said.
"As the @VP enjoys a long weekend, maybe she could read a couple of books on the sacrifices made by those we honor with this holiday," former Rep. Doug Collins (R-Ga.) said.
"This is more than a 'long weekend' for the thousands of fathers, mothers, sons, and daughters who's loved ones will never return," Rep. Madison Cawthorn, said.
"Harris, show some respect for the heroes who paid the ultimate price for our freedom," Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded.
"America is honoring our fallen, Kamala is honoring herself," Kassy Dillon noted.
"This is unreal. No regard or gratitude for the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our great nation. Could you possibly be more obtuse, @VP?" Jessie Jane Duff said.
"Care to mention WHY we're having a long weekend, Kamala?" Rep. Lauren Boebert (R-Colo.) said.
By Sunday morning, Harris had posted a more appropriate message.
"Throughout our history our service men and women have risked everything to defend our freedoms and our country. As we prepare to honor them on Memorial Day, we remember their service and their sacrifice," Harris tweeted.Two people were killed and up to 25 people were injured in a shooting in South Florida. The incident happened at a concert in northwest Miami-Dade County.
A white Nissan Pathfinder drove up to the El Mula Banquet Hall in the Country Club Shopping Center in Hialeah between 12 a.m. and 1 a.m., according to Miami-Dade police director Alfredo Ramirez III. Three assailants reportedly got out of the SUV and indiscriminately opened fire with rifles and handguns at the crowd outside the banquet hall, which had been rented out for a concert.
Two people were shot dead at the scene, and between 20-25 people were wounded. The gunshot victims were transported to local hospitals, and one person is in critical condition.
Alex Lanires, who works in the shopping center, said the crowd there is "rowdy" and there have been fights "every other weekend."
"I guess it was a matter of time before something really bad happened, and I guess today was that time," Lanires told WPLG-TV reporter Parker Branton.
Authorities believe the shooting was targeted.
"I am at the scene of another targeted and cowardly act of gun violence, where over 20 victims were shot and 2 have sadly died," Ramirez tweeted on Sunday. "These are cold blooded murderers that shot indiscriminately into a crowd and we will seek justice. My deepest condolences to the family of the victims."
No arrests were immediately announced.
The police are asking for the public's help in bringing the shooters to justice. Anyone with information is asked to call Miami-Dade Crime Stoppers at 305-471-8477.
"It is very difficult to stop a small amount of individuals who want to go out there and commit murder, and it takes all of us to stop this," Ramirez told the Miami Herald. "We really have to put the work in this summer to keep our children and community safe."A Northern California restaurant is now charging patrons an extra fee if they wear a face covering inside the restaurant or if they are heard "bragging" about being vaccinated for COVID-19.
What are the details?
Customers entering Fiddleheads Cafe in Mendocino, California, are being greeted with a sign posted on the restaurant's front door warning them about the new charge.
"$5 FEE ADDED TO ORDERS PLACED WHILE WEARING A FACE MASK," the message says.
The message tells customers they will be dinged with an "additional $5 fee" if they are "caught bragging" about having received the COVID-19 vaccine. The sign says that all proceeds collected from the pandemic-related fines will be "donated to local charities assisting domestic abuse victims."
Cafe owner Chris Castleman told KNTV-TV some customers have paid the fee while others have responded with outrage.
Ultimately, however, he characterized the fee as an optional donation to charity, and suggested that he implemented the fee to demonstrate how "freedom of choice" has become a "foreign concept" in Democrat-controlled California.
"Customers either love it or hate it," Castleman said. "There are people who refuse to pay it; I guess a $5 donation to charity is too much for them. Others have gladly paid it knowing that it goes to a good cause. I don't force anyone to pay, I give them the freedom of choice, which seems to be a foreign concept in these parts of the country."
In a separate interview, Castleman alluded to a common refrain used during the pandemic that wearing a face covering is a "small price to pay" to help protect yourself and others from COVID-19.
"I've been told this whole time that wearing a mask is a small price to pay," Castleman told SFGate. "Some people get shocked by the sign but to see them turn around and get disgusted ... when they're asked to pay $5 [for charity], it's not in their wheelhouse. It's not something they're choosing to do."
Face masks are currently required in Mendocino County, where the cafe is located, including inside restaurants when patrons are not eating or drinking. Restaurants are also limited to 50% indoor capacity.
Anything else?
Castleman has a history of voicing his pandemic-related views.
In April, he posted a sign outside the restaurant that said, "THROW YOUR MASK(S) IN OUR TRASH BIN AND RECEIVE 50% OFF YOUR ORDER."
Another sign, which has since been removed, said, "GET YOUR FREE COVID-19 VACCINE CARD HERE!"The Biden administration reportedly authorized U.S. embassies to fly LGBTQ and Black Lives Matter flags, as seen at the U.S. embassy in Athens, Greece. The gesture has prompted backlash from many, including Rep. Nicole Malliotakis (R-N.Y.), who introduced a new bill to prevent political flags other than the American flag from being flown outside U.S. embassies around the world.
The Republican representative from Staten Island introduced the Stars and Stripes Act of 2021, which "directs the Secretary of State to restrict the display of certain flags or banners at diplomatic and consular posts around the world."
"It is inappropriate for President Biden and Secretary Blinken to authorize and encourage the display of inherently political flags that are in no way affiliated with the U.S. Government over American embassies overseas," Malliotakis said,
"The American flag is a beacon of freedom and hope for oppressed peoples around the world; it should be the primary flag flown above our embassies and that is what my legislation seeks to accomplish," Malliotakis said. "The Administration's directive is an insult to those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our flag and our nation — especially as we head into Memorial Day weekend — and it is absolutely ridiculous that legislation is needed to correct this issue."
The bill argues against supporting Black Lives Matter because the organization has called "convicting and banning former President Trump from holding future political office" and "defunding the police."
The Stars and Stripes Act of 2021 was co-sponsored by House GOP Conference Chair Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) and Reps. Ken Buck (R-Colo.), Michael Guest (R-Miss.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Brian Mast (R-Fla.), and Pete Sessions (R-Texas).
Secretary of State Antony Blinken shared a video that featured BLM messaging on the anniversary of George Floyd's death.
"On the anniversary of George Floyd's murder, we remember that to be a credible force for human rights around the world, we must face the reality of racism at home," he wrote. "By addressing our shortcomings openly and honestly, we live up to the values that we stand for worldwide."The Pentagon is investigating a video that was revealed to the internet this week purportedly showing a swarm of UFOs circling a U.S. Navy combat ship. The leaked footage reportedly shows a mysterious event captured on the radar aboard the USS Omaha that took place in July 2019.
Jeremy Corbell, the filmmaker behind the UFO documentary "Bob Lazar: Area 51 & Flying Saucers," posted a video that was allegedly recorded from the Combat Information Center of the USS Omaha off the coast of San Diego. In the 14-second video clip posted to social media on Thursday, a swarm of at least 14 unidentified flying objects were spotted on radar circling the Independence-class littoral combat ship.
"Holy s***! They're moving fast...They're turning around," an unidentified man is heard saying as the unidentified craft reached a speed of 158 mph after traveling only 46 mph earlier. Then one of the unidentified aerial phenomena splashed into the Pacific Ocean. The Navy deployed a submarine to track the object, but no wreckage was discovered.
The Pentagon's Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force is investigating the latest UFO video.
Pentagon spokesperson Susan Gough told the Daily Caller, "We're looking into it." Gough confirmed, "The video was taken by Navy personnel, and that the UAPTF included it in their ongoing examinations."
In 2019 US Navy warships were swarmed by UFOs; here is RADAR footage from that event series www.youtube.com
Corbell has released several videos taken by U.S. Navy personnel, some of which have been authenticated by the Pentagon.
Earlier this month, Corbell released a video of another UAP encounter with the U.S. Navy. The Pentagon confirmed that footage of a "spherical" UFO flying off the coast of California near the USS Omaha is authentic. The UFO was believed to be a transmedium vehicle, a craft that is capable of traveling in air and water.
In April, Corbell released a UFO video of a triangle-shaped object hovering over the USS Russell while sailing off the coast of San Diego. The Pentagon confirmed that the pyramid-shaped UAP footage from 2019 was genuine.
"These are authentic photos and video from actual military encounters with UFOs - generated to educate high-level intelligence officers within our military on the nature and presentation of the UAP / UFO phenomenon," Corbell wrote on his Extraordinary Beliefs website.
U.S. intelligence agencies are expected to release what they know about UFOs to Congress next month. Last December, former President Donald Trump signed the federal omnibus spending bill, which included a provision that the Pentagon must reveal what they know about UAPs. The Office of Naval Intelligence and its Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force are "required to present senators on intelligence and armed services committees." The government agencies have until June 25 to reveal their findings of the UFOs.
In March, former Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe gave a preview of the upcoming UAP report, in which he said some of the UFO sightings are "difficult to explain."
"There are instances where we don't have good explanations for some of the things that we've seen, and when that information becomes declassified, I'll be able to talk a little bit more about that," Ratcliffe said.North Carolina authorities have charged a woman with serious felonies after they say she hit two protesters demonstrating in the street this week,
Video of the incident, however, has provided additional insight into what happened.
What are the details?
Elizabeth City police arrested 41-year-old Lisa Michelle O'Quinn after she allegedly hit two people on Monday who were "peacefully protesting and exercising their constitutional rights," according to a press release.
Protesters were demonstrating in the roadway and blocking traffic from moving as normal. Elizabeth City has been the site of demonstrations for about a month after police there killed Andrew Brown Jr., a black man whose death a prosecutor has ruled "justified."
Police charged O'Quinn with two counts of assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill by use of a motor vehicle, one count of careless and reckless conduct and one count of unsafe movement.
Investigators even said they are gathering evidence to determine if O'Quinn committed a hate crime. O'Quinn is white and the two people she allegedly hit are black women. Both victims were taken to the hospital for non-life threatening injuries, then later released.
"The police department is currently investigating this matter and we will be presenting facts and findings in this case to include potential aggravating factors for criminal enhancements for potential sentencing purposes of a hate crime involving this event," the department said.
What does the video show?
Video uploaded to social media showed what happened in the alleged assault.
O'Quinn can be seen driving a white car and attempting to make a right turn onto a street where protesters were demonstrating. O'Quinn inched forward and slowly made her turn while honking her horn. The protesters then began beating on O'Quinn's vehicle, and she responded by speeding up. One of the protesters fell to the ground, then got up and walked away.
With protesters now routinely demonstrating on public roadways, some politicians have advocated providing drivers with immunity if they strike protesters blocking the road.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) recently signed into law an "anti-riot" bill that, among other things, provides drivers with civil immunity if they strike protesters blocking the road, so long as they claim they did so to protect their life. Oklahoma has enacted a similar law.
North Carolina once considered such legislation — in fact, one bill passed the state House in 2017 — but the effort ultimately fizzled out.Cynthia Nixon declared on Twitter that shoplifters shouldn't be arrested, and she was slammed by online commenters. Internet commenters lampooned the proposal by the "Sex and the City" actress as an "out of touch Democrat" who wants to "legalize crime."
Nixon responded to a tweet by Errol Louis, a Spectrum News NY1 journalist, which shared a New York Times article spotlighting the shoplifting surge in San Francisco.
"The mundane crime of shoplifting has spun out of control in San Francisco, forcing some chain stores to close," the article stated. "Walgreens said that thefts at its stores in San Francisco were four times the chain's national average, and that it had closed 17 stores, largely because the scale of thefts had made business untenable."
San Francisco Supervisor Ahsha Safai told the San Francisco Chronicle that shoplifting incidents "have become more violent and brazen," and the situation is "out of control."
"People are scared to go into these stores — seniors, people with disabilities, children. It's just happening brazenly," Safai said
Louis added on his tweet, "Worth noting that several candidates for Manhattan DA (and for NYC Mayor) say shoplifting should not be prosecuted because that's 'criminalizing poverty.'"
Nixon shared the tweet by Louis on Twitter and wrote, "The CVS on my corner has started locking up basic items like clothing detergent. As so many families can't make ends meet right now, I can't imagine thinking that the way to solve the problem of people stealing basic necessities out of desperation is to prosecute them."
Twitter reactions lambasted the former Democratic New York gubernatorial candidate's proposal:
Tony Bruno: "Guess that embarrassing foray into politics wasn't enough to prove how out of touch with reality you truly are."
Erielle Davidson: " No, it's mostly organized gangs that then resell the items. These stores close down when the theft becomes too great, taking jobs (and access to basic necessities) with them. We'll need to invent a new academic term for this phenomenon—toothpaste deserts or something."
Andrew Sullivan : "'Legalize Crime' is almost as effective as 'Defund The Police.'"
Kurt Schlichter: "Democrats are for theft."
A Twitter user: "Y ou live in a neighborhood of $3 million-dollar apartments and townhouses. No one at your CVS is 'desperate' to steal 'basic necessities.' This isn't just moral grandstanding on your part, it's really incompetent moral grandstanding."
A commenter: "Letting people just steal stuff doesn't solve the problem either. Which laws do we choose to follow? Do you really think society will be better off if we let people just walk into a store and steal whatever they want? This is how Democrats lose elections."
Another user: "Well Cynthia, why don't you go down to the CVS on your corner and simply buy these items from the store. Then set up a table outside the door with the items available for anyone to take, for free. Then you can directly help these families you are so troubled about."
A commenter: "I grew up poor, and we never took anything that we hadn't paid for. It's insulting that you think the less fortunate have no ability to discern right from wrong. Also, allowing widespread theft will result in higher prices, punishing the poor and honest."
A Twitter user: "San Francisco allows theft to go on unabated, so the retailers all close. Then there are no jobs and no easily accessed commodities."
A commenter: " Tweet out your address and open your pantry."Jeff Berardelli, a CBS News meteorologist and "climate specialist," admitted this week that a key metric scientists cite to warn about the dangers of climate change is not rooted in provable science.
What is the background?
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published a report in 2018 warning of the catastrophic effects of global warming if global temperatures reach 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
"Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C and increase further with 2°C," the IPCC said.
"Poverty and disadvantage are expected to increase in some populations as global warming increases; limiting global warming to 1.5°C, compared with 2°C, could reduce the number of people both exposed to climate-related risks and susceptible to poverty by up to several hundred million by 2050," an IPCC summary report for policymakers claimed.
What did Berardelli say?
Speaking on CBS' "This Morning" Berardelli explained the 1.5 degrees Celsius is only important because it's the number scientists chose — at least for right now.
First, Berardelli warned what will happen when global warming reaches an increase of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
In the next 5 years, it is somewhat likely that we will hit 1.5 degrees Celsius — briefly, temporarily — that's 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit of warming since pre-industrial times. It's likely to happen during an El Niño year, that's when it's really warm in the Pacific [Ocean]; so, natural variations on top of climate change. Then it will go back down.
But, you know, this is really a sign that humanity isn't doing very well in managing our global greenhouse gas emissions. And at 1.5 degrees Celsius, it's not like we're gonna fall off a cliff where things are all of the sudden get catastrophic. But things will progressively get worse at a much faster pace. The intensity of these extreme weather events will pick up. We will see compounded events: heat waves on top of sea-level rise on top of large hurricanes and impactful hurricanes. And so things will get worse and worse if we breach [1.5 degrees Celsius].
Then Berardelli revealed why the metric is only a "symbolic marker."
"Yeah, because humans chose it," he said. "It's not a tipping point. It's not like we're gonna fall off a cliff. It's just that things will get progressively worse and worse at a faster clip."Texas Sen. Ted Cruz (R) is leading the Republican Party's stand against COVID-19 vaccine passports, introducing a bill on Friday that would prohibit the federal government from enacting vaccine verification measures for the near future.
What are the details?
The bill, according to a press release, would "stop the federal government from establishing COVID-19 passports or working with third parties to establish their own vaccine passports, such as airlines or other global entities."
The legislation would also impose a 5-year prohibition on "any government vaccine mandate" for those vaccines first used through an Emergency Use Authorization from the Food and Drug Administration. Currently, each of the three vaccines being used in the United States have been awarded EUA only. Pfizer, the vaccine first awarded EUA, has applied for full approval.
Cruz introduced the bill alongside Sens. Mike Braun (R-Ind.) and Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.).
What did Cruz say?
In a statement, Cruz said banning vaccine passports are necessary to protect Americans' privacy.
Americans shouldn't be discriminated against because of COVID-19 vaccine status — whether that is at work or in everyday life. Americans have a well-established right to privacy that any mandated vaccine passport would destroy. A vaccine passport would be discriminatory against people who, for whatever reason, do not get the COVID-19 vaccine. We should be encouraging individuals to receive the vaccine through increased patient protections, not mandating it.
The truth is not everyone can receive the COVID-19 vaccine — for legitimate reasons. I got the vaccine because it was the right decision for me, but people should be free to make the decision that is right for them and consult with their doctor if they have concerns. Individuals who are unable to receive the vaccine should not be denied access to aspects of everyday life or the opportunity to participate in society. Mandating the vaccine or requiring all individuals to be fully vaccinated before returning to normal life could prevent America from fully reopening.
Braun and Lummis echoed Cruz's concerns.
"The COVID vaccines are a medical miracle and getting vaccinated is a personal decision some may choose not to make for a variety of reasons. I'm proud to stand with Senator Cruz against vaccine passports," Braun said.
"The government should not be in the business of exposing Americans' private health information. Our job should be to protect citizens' privacy rights — that's what the 4th Amendment of our Constitution is about," Lummis said.
Will the government enact a vaccine passport?
The bill was announced on the same day that Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas said the Biden administration is "taking a very close look" at implementing vaccine passports for international travel.
"We're taking a very close look at that, you know, one of our principles that has guided us throughout this pandemic is the value of diversity, equity, and inclusion, and making sure that any passport that we provide for vaccinations is accessible to all and that no one is disenfranchised," Mayorkas said.
However, a DHS spokesperson later clarified that Mayorkas was referring to helping Americans travel internationally — not implementing a vaccine passport for Americans.
"We've always said we're looking at how we can ensure Americans traveling abroad have a quick and easy way to enter other countries," the spokesperson said, according to Axios. "That's what the Secretary was referring to; ensuring that all U.S. travelers will be able to easily meet any anticipated foreign country entry requirements."
While the government has not announced any intention to enact vaccine passports, New York introduced a verification program in the Empire State, while Oregon is also requiring proof of vaccination for maskless entry into businesses and churches.
Numerous other states, however, have enacted prohibitions against vaccine passports.Grief-stricken mothers have come forward to accuse Black Lives Matter of "benefiting off the blood" of their sons who died from police shootings. The mothers also questioned the intentions of BLM founder Patrisse Cullors, and say she is going to "take the money and run."
Samaria Rice is the mother of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old boy who had a toy gun and was fatally shot in Cleveland by police in 2014. The mother of the slain boy commented on the recent development of Cullors stepping down from her leadership role at the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation.
"I don't believe she is going anywhere," Rice said of Cullors' BLM resignation. "It's all a facade. She's only saying that to get the heat off her right now."
Cullors resigned following being embroiled in several controversies, including going on a "real estate buying binge," proudly boasting that she is a "trained Marxist," and being overjoyed that a book she was promoting was compared to the "Little Red Book" by Chinese Communist Party leader Mao Zedong.
Rice told the New York Post that she contacted the Black Lives Matter organization in a plea for help in re-opening a federal investigation into her son's 2014 death. The mother said she exchanged a few emails with Cullors over the years, but nothing came of it.
"They are benefiting off the blood of our loved ones, and they won't even talk to us," Rice said.
Another outspoken critic of Cullors is Lisa Simpson, the mother of Richard Risher, who was shot and killed in 2016 by police in Los Angeles.
"Now she doesn't have to show her accountability," Simpson told the New York Post. "She can just take the money and run."
Black Lives Matter reported raked in $90 million from donations in 2020, but local BLM chapters claimed they hadn't received sufficient financial support.
Black Lives Matter's Los Angeles chapter raised $5,000 for Risher's funeral, but Simpson claimed she never received any of it.
In March, Rice and Simpson blasted Black Lives Matter leadership.
"We never hired them to be the representatives in the fight for justice for our dead loved ones murdered by the police," the statement reads. "The 'activists' have events in our cities and have not given us anything substantial for using our loved ones' images and names on their flyers. We don't want or need y'all parading in the streets accumulating donations, platforms, movie deals, etc. off the death of our loved ones, while the families and communities are left clueless and broken."
Cullors did not respond to a request for comment from the New York Post.
In April, the mother of Breonna Taylor slammed the Louisville chapter of Black Lives Matter, going so far as to label the organization as a "fraud." Tamika Palmer, the distraught mother, unleashed a damning condemnation by saying, "I have never personally dealt with BLM Louisville and personally have found them to be fraud, Attica Scott another fraud."
"I could walk in a room full of people who claim to be here for Breonna's family who don't even know who I am," Palmer said in the since-deleted post on social media. "I've watched y'all raise money on behalf of Breonna's family who has never done a damn thing for us nor have we needed it or asked so talk about fraud. It's amazing how many people have lost focus."President Joe Biden was slammed Friday after comments he directed toward a young girl circulated online and generated backlash.
What did Biden say?
While speaking at Joint Base Langley-Eustis in Hampton, Virginia, video shows Biden direct off-key remarks toward a person who was reportedly "a little girl."
Biden said, according to video:
I'm honored to be joined today by Gov. Northam and by two great representatives of the Commonwealth, Congresswoman [Elaine] Luria and Congressman [Bobby] Scott. And I want to thank you for all that you do to represent these service veterans, because they're devoted to you, the family members, the caregivers, survivors, all call Virginia home. I'm especially honored to share the stage with Brittany and Jared and Nathan and Margaret Catherine.
I love those barrettes in your hair, man. I tell you what, look at her. She looks like she's 19 years old sitting there like a little lady with her legs crossed. Brittany, you're doing triple-duty as a veteran, a military spouse, and a teacher. And kids, thank you for being there for your mom.
The New York Post reported the girl "appeared to be elementary school age" and "had joined her parents and two older brothers on the podium while her mother introduced the president."
What was the reaction?
Biden was swiftly rebuked on social media for the comments, and the hashtag "#CreepyJoe" was trending on Twitter.
"Creepy Joe is back," Rita Panahi commented; "Sickening," Benny Johnson said; "dude has issues," Jon Gabriel reacted; "That's pretty *&^%$!ed up," Nathan Wurtzel said; "Creeeeeeep!" Joey Jones reacted.
Of course, Friday's incident was not the first time Biden has been accused of creepy behavior.
Before Biden launched his presidential campaign in 2019, former Nevada lawmaker Lucy Flores accused Biden of unwanted contact during a campaign event in 2014 when Biden was vice president. Three other women then came forward with allegations of unwanted contact, including touching and kisses.
Biden responded to those accusations by promising to "be more mindful and respectful of people's personal space."
During his campaign, Biden was also accused of sexual assault by Tara Reade, who worked as an aide in Biden's Senate office in the early 1990s. Biden has staunchly denied Reade's allegations.Hunter Biden boasted that he "smoked crack" with Marion Barry, the former mayor of Washington, D.C. The admission was reportedly made on audio retrieved from Hunter's damaged laptop that was allegedly left at a Delaware computer repair shop in 2019.
In the leaked audio clip dated Jan. 5, 2019, Hunter is talking to an unnamed friend over the phone. According to the Daily Mail, which first posted the audio, Biden "chides the friend for being 'racist' by suggesting Martin Luther King took cocaine." Then Hunter Biden revealed that he smoked crack with late-D.C. Mayor Marion Barry, according to the laptop audio.
"Did Martin Luther King do coke? I don't know," the friend told Hunter on the phone call. "With an Indian and a black man."
"Oh, see, you are such a racist I swear to god," Hunter allegedly replied. "No he didn't, Jesus Christ. You're so f***ing funny."
"That mayor from D.C. did," the anonymous man responded. "Marion Barry."
"You know what, I actually smoked crack with Marion Barry, I swear to f***ing god," Hunter allegedly admitted, to which the other man responded in shock, "Jesus."
"That was in Georgetown. And he used to go to a place right next to [local bar] The Guards," President Joe Biden's son purportedly said. "And I was a sophomore I guess, I was a junior when that happened."
"But he used to come there and drink like late, late," Hunter said as per the leaked audio. "And I would be there, and he would go to the bathroom."
Biden, 51, graduated from Georgetown in 1992, which means the alleged crack-smoking encounter happened around 1990.
Barry was infamously arrested on Jan. 18, 1990, when the FBI busted the then-D.C. mayor in a sting operation. The FBI recorded Barry smoking crack with his former girlfriend Diane "Rasheeda" Moore, and during the arrest, Barry is heard saying, "B**** set me up."
Barry was convicted on a single count of drug possession, and he served a six-month prison term.
In 1994, Barry won a fourth and final term as Washington, D.C., mayor.
Barry died on Nov. 23, 2014, at 78 years old.
Hunter Biden has publicly admitted that he has struggled with drug addiction for decades, Hunter started abusing crack in the spring of 2018, and he used his new "superpower – finding crack anytime, anywhere" – in Los Angeles, according to his memoir "Beautiful Things."
"He later learned how to cook drugs and spent a lot of time with thieves, addicts and con artists," according to USA Today.
"I never slept. There was no clock. Day bled into night and night into day," Hunter wrote in his book. "I was smoking crack every 15 minutes."
However, the alleged audio leak contradicts Hunter's memoir, where he wrote that an arrest when he was a teenager scared him from using drugs until after he left college, according to The Federalist.The federal government says businesses can mandate that employees get vaccinated against COVID-19 to enter their workplace, and offer incentives for receiving the vaccine.
Meanwhile, legal experts affirmed that being fired for refusing the vaccine is generally legal.
What are the details?
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission released updated guidance Friday explaining that vaccine mandates do not generally violate equal employment regulations.
"The federal EEO laws do not prevent an employer from requiring all employees physically entering the workplace to be vaccinated for COVID-19, subject to the reasonable accommodation provisions of Title VII and the ADA and other EEO considerations discussed below," the agency said. "These principles apply if an employee gets the vaccine in the community or from the employer."
The EEOC also affirmed companies who offer incentives for employees who get vaccinated, although the agency cautioned against "substantial" incentives.
Yes, if any incentive (which includes both rewards and penalties) is not so substantial as to be coercive. Because vaccinations require employees to answer pre-vaccination disability-related screening questions, a very large incentive could make employees feel pressured to disclose protected medical information. ...however, this incentive limitation does not apply if an employer offers an incentive to employees to voluntarily provide documentation or other confirmation that they received a COVID-19 vaccination on their own from a third-party provider that is not their employer or an agent of their employer.
According to Politico, businesses had been pressuring the EEOC to "clarify whether employers could offer paid time off or even cash to encourage vaccination."
"[E]mployers including Dollar General, Aldi and Instacart have already moved to reward their employees for receiving the COVID-19 vaccine by offering paid time off and cash stipends," Politico reported.
Can you be fired for refusing the vaccine?
As the vaccine became available to all American adults this spring, employers began requiring vaccination — and employees who refused the vaccine began to be terminated, which have resulted in lawsuits.
But legal experts say that firing employees for refusing a vaccine given Emergency Use Authorization by the Food and Drug Administration is probably legal, especially considering most states have "at-will" employment laws.
"I am not aware of any court or agency at the state or federal level that has held that the Emergency Use Authorization language prohibits an employer from enforcing a vaccine mandate," attorney Erik Eisenmann told Bloomberg News.
Nicholas Bagley, a law professor at the University of Michigan, agrees. "It's a condition on future employment. And institutions can do all sorts of things as a condition of employment," he said.
Addressing the EUA argument, Bagley told Bloomberg, "The argument looks good for about a half-second, and then, as soon as you start digging, it starts to look much, much worse."A California man with a prior record is facing the possibility of life behind bars for attempted murder after officials say he fired a BB gun at a vehicle carrying three passengers. Authorities believe he is responsible for many more similar incidents.
What are the details?
Officials believe Jesse Leal Rodriguez, 32, is the person who allegedly fired a BB gun and shattered the window of a Tesla with three passengers inside earlier this week, The Orange County Register reported. He was arrested on three counts of attempted murder and three counts of assault for the incident that happened in Norco.
KTLA-TV reported that prosecutors say Rodriguez faces the possibility of life in prison if convicted on all counts, because he has a prior "strike" conviction.
Rodriguez allegedly fired a BB gun at the Tesla on Tuesday. None of the occupants of the vehicle were injured.
Witnesses told investigators that the person responsible was driving a maroon Chevrolet Trailblazer. Authorities were able to track down Rodriguez, and a search of the vehicle recovered a BB gun, BBs, and other purported evidence that was not disclosed.
"Shooting at moving vehicles with a BB gun or pellet gun while traveling at high speed on our roads or freeways is incredibly dangerous," Riverside County DA Mike Hestrin said in a press release. "Shooting out windows of cars could easily startle drivers in traffic and cause a major accident."
The area has seen a rash of similar instances in the area, and officials think Rodriguez has something to do with others — even though, so far, he has only been charged with one.
"Rodriguez is suspected of 7 cases of firing a BB gun at occupied vehicles while those vehicles were being driven," California Highway Patrol investigator Steven Cuevas wrote in court filings, according to The Register. "Rodriguez was in possession of a BB gun and his vehicle was identified. Numerous CHP areas are currently investigating well over 100 similar incidents, some of which could possibly be linked to Rodriguez."Spain's postal service is being accused of being really racist after the service launched an ill-fated campaign to combat racism by issuing stamps with different values according to their color. A set of four stamps ranges in price from the lightest color costing 1.60 euros ($1.95) to the darkest one costing 0.70 euros ($0.85).
"The darker the stamp, the less value it will have," said Correos España, the state-owned postal service, about the campaign.
"Therefore, when making a shipment, it will be necessary to use more black stamps than white ones," the postal service explained. "That way, each letter and each shipment will become a reflection of the inequality created by racism."
A video from Correos España about the "Equality Stamps" campaign explicitly ties its effort to the anti-racism protests around the world. The stamps were released on the first anniversary of the murder of George Floyd, and as a part of European Diversity Month.
"A collection of stamps demanding that color should not determine the value we place on a person's life," said campaign spokesperson El Chojín, a Spanish activist and rapper.
Many are calling the anti-racist campaign very racist.
Antumi Toasijé, a historian and activist, said they should end the campaign altogether.
"A campaign that infuriates those it is trying to defend is always a mistake," tweeted Toasijé in Spanish.
"When it comes to the fight against racism, irony, double meanings and 'This needs to be talked about even if it's wrong' don't help. We can all make mistakes, but it's time to fix this one," he added.
"At the end of the day, an anti-racism campaign has put out a clearly racist message," lamented Spanish author Moha Gerehou.
Correos Espana told The Guardian it would not be commenting about the uproar over its anti-racism campaign.
Here's the video on the racist anti-racist campaign:A number of U.S. governors have now offered high-dollar incentives using taxpayer dollars for residents to get vaccinated from COVID-19, but California Gov. Gavin Newsom — who is facing a recall over his handling of the pandemic — is breaking the bank with a $116.5 million "giveaway."
What are the details?
"CA is launching a $116.5 MILLION GIVEAWAY for vaccinated Californians!" Newsome tweeted Thursday. "$15 MILLION in cash prizes for 10 winners selected 6/15 $50k for winners on 6/4 & 6/11 Already vaccinated? You're entered. Not vaccinated? Next 2 million that get fully vaccinated can ALSO get a $50 card."
The Daily Caller reported that the program, dubbed "Vax for the Win," is "open to most residents age 12 and older, regardless of their immigration status," but there are some who are ineligible such as incarcerated individuals and certain government employees.
According to the San Francisco Chronicle, the funds for the "giveaway" will "initially come out of the state's general fund but will later be backfilled by federal funding from the $1.9 trillion stimulus bill that Congress passed last year."
The first governor to implement a vaccine lottery scheme was Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine (R), who offered up five $1 million prizes for vaccinated adults with dollars pulled from "existing federal Coronavirus Relief funds."
DeWine's plan received mixed reviews on social media, with some people calling the lottery a waste of taxpayer dollars, and others arguing it would likely be more effective than high-dollar government-funded marketing campaigns urging people to get vaccinated.
The first winner in Ohio's "Vax-a-Million" lottery was 22-year-old mechanical engineer Abbigail Bugenske, who initially thought the call from the governor was a prank. She says she intends to invest her winnings.
DeWine told CNN this week that his lottery has helped boost his state's vaccination rate by 45%.
Since DeWine announced his lottery, several other states followed suit, including Colorado, New York, Maryland, and West Virginia — most of them similar to DeWine's plan (and spending amount).
Not Newsom. The California governor is pouring $110 million more than DeWine into his "giveaway."
"Getting every eligible Californian vaccinated is how we bring our state roaring back from this pandemic," Newsom said in a press conference. "California has already made incredible progress in the fight against COVID-19, with the lowest case rates in the country while administering millions more vaccines than any other state. But we aren't stopping there. We're doing everything it takes to get Californians vaccinated as we approach June 15 to help us fully reopen safely."A federal appeals court sided with pro-life activists after New York tried to block them from protesting an abortion clinic in the New York City borough of Queens.
The three-judge panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan decided to reverse its own prior decision allowing New York authorities to keep protesters away from the Choices Women's Medical Center in Jamaica.
On March 10, the panel had originally rejected the argument from the activists that blocking them from the abortion clinic was a violation of their First Amendment free speech rights.
New York Attorney General Letitia James praised the ruling at the time.
"Every woman has the constitutional right to access an abortion and this order makes clear that everyone must be granted access to these facilities without obstruction and harassment," James said. "The court has given us another opportunity to make our case and we will not waver in our fight to protect women's reproductive freedoms."
The suit was first filed by former state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in 2017 after an investigation into the pro-life protesters involving undercover investigators, surveillance cameras and hidden recording devices.
The tactics used by the pro-life protesters involved speaking to abortion-seekers despite their being asked to be left alone, "slow-walking" in front of patients, and leaning into cars to distribute campaign literature.
Judge Rosemary Pooler, who was appointed to the court by former President Bill Clinton, argued in the March 10 decision that those tactics presented an undue restriction on the patients' rights.
"Even if such conduct is innocuous in other situations, given the health risks women needing reproductive care face because of the increased stress, anxiety and agitation from protester misconduct, the negative effects of de minimis conduct are amplified when dealing with reproductive health," said Pooler.
According to Reuters, the panel did not explain its reasoning in overturning its own decision.
Here's more about the original lawsuit in 2017:The CDC has eased its guidance on mask wearing and other COVID-19 suggestions for summer camps, updating their recommendations for kids weeks after youth ages 12 to 15 were made eligible for vaccination.
What are the details?
The update released Friday points out that coronavirus vaccines in the U.S. are now approved for everyone age 12 and up, and says that camps where everyone is inoculated against the virus may safely ditch masks and social distancing entirely. Although vaccinated people do not need to wear masks, the CDC recommends that camps support those who choose to continue wearing a facial covering.
The Washington Examiner pointed out that kids ages 12 to 15 were just made eligible to receive the Pfizer vaccine on May 12. As of CDC stats today, nearly 60% of children 12 and older have received at least one jab — a number high enough that the CDC sees opportunities for a "pre-pandemic camp experience," one official told The Washington Post.
"We have this whole group of adolescents who by mid- to late summer can be fully vaccinated," CDC Community Interventions and Critical Populations Task Force team lead told the newspaper. "Camps are at a point where they can offer an opportunity to have a camp setting where everyone is fully vaccinated."
For camps where not everyone is vaccinated — applying to every camp where kids under 12 are included — masks are still recommended by the feds indoors, but the CDC says that "in general, people do not need to wear masks when outdoors." Still, unvaccinated people should where masks outside when in "sustained close contact" situations with others who are not inoculated, the agency says.
The Post reported that the CDC's updated guidelines "remove some glaring inconsistencies between earlier camp recommendations that all staffers and campers wear masks and more recent announcements."
Two weeks ago, the CDC announced that fully vaccinated Americans could return to mask-free living with a few exceptions, and their update for youth camps comes just as the summer sessions begin.A transgender female athlete said that Joe Rogan should stop talking about the contentious issue of transgender people competing in sports.
Fallon Fox retired from fighting professionally in 2014, but regularly speaks out in defense of transgender athletes. Fox was born a biological male.
The 45-year-old spoke out against Rogan and other critics of transgender athletes in an interview with ET Canada.
"A lot of prominent people were talking about a bunch of horrible things. The Joe Rogans, the Ronda Rouseys, the Dana Whites of the world," said Fox.
"From what they said about me in the past, I could have just crawled up into a ball and given up. I could have just stopped competing, but I didn't," Fox explained. "I kept competing and I kept talking about this issue and I'm going to continue to do it."
Fox went on to opine that Rogan, one of the most successful podcasters in history, should simply stop talking about transgender athletes.
"No, he shouldn't speak, especially on this issue that's so important to transgender people and transgender people's lives," Fox asserted. "Just like coronavirus is important to people's lives. He just brings up these things and just makes them up."
Fox argued against Rogan's claim that biological males had an advantage over women because of their natural bone density differences.
"African-American women have more dense bones than Caucasian women do. I don't see any one saying that we shouldn't have African-American women competing against cisgender women," Fox explained.
"I think it's just bogus for them to even bring up bone density in the first place," Fox concluded. "Things like that that people just bring out of thin air and just say our true, that [is what] we're fighting against."
Fox went on to complain that Rogan and others like him don't appreciate her importance to the world of sports.
Rogan has been criticized by many on the left for arguing against the practice of hormone therapy for young children who may exhibit some gender confusion.
"There's no reason to give kids hormones," said Rogan on his podcast in 2019.
"People don't know who they are, a 7-year-old," he continued, "people don't even give their 7 year-old phones, you don't let them vote, you're gonna let them decide what sex they're gonna be for the rest of their life?"
Here's the interview with Fallon Fox:Security removed two men from Yankee Stadium — one apparently in handcuffs — after the pair displayed a massive pro-Donald Trump banner during Thursday night's game.
What happened?
Photos and videos posted on social media from Thursday night's game show the men unraveling the banner which said, "Trump Won, Save America," and draping over the second deck behind first base.
In footage posted by Sports Illustrated reporter Max Goodman, fans can be heard loudly booing the men while others appeared to clap and cheer. At one point, one angry fan attempts to jump up and grab the banner to pull it down.
Goodman wrote in the post that it "sounded like the entire crowd was booing until security confiscated the banner, which then resulted in a loud cheer."
Photos captured by the New York Post appear to show the two men struggling with security guards who were attempting to confiscate the banner.
In another video posted on Facebook, one of the two men is seen being escorted out of the stadium in handcuffs surrounded by a group of four or five security guards while the other man follows behind unrestrained.
As the two men were removed, fans flipped them off and shouted something along the lines of "Get Them Out!"
What else?
Lindsey Adler, who covers the Yankees for The Athletic, wrote in a tweet, "Lots of booing here after some jabronis unfurled a 'TRUMP WON' banner off the second deck. (He didn't)."
"Now we have extremely loud cheering as the conspiracy theory banner people are led out of the section by security," she added in another tweet.
The incident occurred during the second game of a doubleheader between the New York Yankees and the Toronto Blue Jays.
One of the men involved in the incident appears to be Don Cini, who describes himself on Twitter as a "Guerilla Marketeer, Founder of OperationFlagDrop and 'Professional Provacatuer.'"
Anything else?
While it's fair to wonder if a similar banner promoting a Democratic politician would have been treated in the same fashion, Yankee Stadium official policies permit security to remove banners or signs at their discretion:
Banners and signs are permitted provided they are baseball-related, in good taste, not of a commercial nature and not supported by wood, metal or other materials that could be injurious in a crowded public setting. Banners and signs may not obstruct the view of other Guests or Yankee Stadium advertising signage or be affixed to the Stadium in any manner. Banners and signs may be carried through the stands between innings only. Banners and signs may not be displayed in fair territory. Any banner or sign may be removed, at any time, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Yankees.
Similarly, the stadium says, "Guests who refuse to follow the direction of Yankee Stadium Team Members or who do not comply with the Guest Code of Conduct face immediate ejection and revocation of season tickets and/or future ticket privileges without refund."
According to a Quinnipiac poll released Wednesday, two-thirds of Republican voters do not think President Joe Biden's defeat of Donald Trump in the 2020 election was legitimate.Shawn McBreairty — a father of twin daughters who are seniors in a Maine high school — told Fox News' Tucker Carlson that after a yearlong battle against the leftist agenda of the school board and district superintendent, he's still not sure if he's allowed to attend his daughters' graduation ceremony after being banned recently.
What are the details?
McBreairty on Thursday told Carlson it all started last June after he said he received a "white supremacist letter" from the district on the heels of George Floyd's death and the riots across America that followed.
"When I read that, I felt assaulted," he told Carlson. "This wasn't how I grew up. It wasn't how I taught the girls. And frankly, I didn't want the school teaching this kind of information to my kids."
The added that he "pushed back" to Jeff Porter, superintendent of Cumberland and North Yarmouth, and told him "very politely, look, as Minneapolis is burning to the ground, you could have talked about the First Amendment and peaceful protest."
But McBreairty said Porter "missed all of that. And he kind of said, sorry, you took it that way. He then doubled down on that a couple of days later with a you're-not-woke-enough-to-understand-what-I'm-talking-about letter" which the dad said "basically divided the entire community just like our nation is right now."
'I took the fight to them'
With that, McBreairty said he started to do battle.
"So I went to the school board meetings," he told Carlson. "I asked them to make some changes on some things that I had found, and they basically said no. And from there, they tried to cancel me. And once that occurred, I took the fight to them. I really held them accountable to their public comment policy. I used my First Amendment rights and really tried to push the envelope to help them understand that as a parent, I just didn't want that in my community that I've lived in for over 20 years."
Soon McBreairty said he specifically called out one of the school board members — Ann Maksymowicz, whom he described as "one of the more radical folks" on the board.
"I took a picture of her when she was not standing for the Pledge of Allegiance to honor our troops," he recalled. "And before I left the room, I put that on ... social media. And half the town lost their mind; they couldn't believe that I took a picture of a government official, elected official, and then sent that out to the world."
McBreairty added to Carlson that he created a "small political sign of Ann" that he "brought that to a meeting which Jeff Porter kicked me out of, and then I put that sign right beside the road where I live on across the street, illuminated 24 hours a day. And frankly, the leftists lost their mind, Tucker."
But McBreairty said whatever abuse he got, he "just kept counterpunching. They would punch, and I would punch back, and I'd push back harder. And we just kind of work through it."
A sign leads to trouble
According to the Daily Wire, McBreairty was served with a "prohibitive conduct warning" banning him from being on school property for "illegally" hanging a sign of featuring Maksymowicz on a middle school fence.
And while the Daily Wire said Porter has lifted the ban as long as Dad meets certain conditions, McBreiarty told Carlson he's not sure what it all means.
"I pushed back a couple of times on that because, frankly, I don't think there should be conditions set to me going to graduation," he said. "I don't know if he wants me to stand on one leg and rub my belly the whole time. I have no idea what these conditions are."
Porter told the Daily Wire that "as a superintendent, I have good reason not to let him attend this event. However, as a parent I believe that granting this request is important and have chosen to use this lens in making this exception."
The outlet said Porter will provide expectations to McBreiarty before the June 6 ceremony.A valedictorian from a Michigan high school now is allowed to mention her Christian faith in her graduation speech set for next week after the school's principal — who had said the faith reference was "not appropriate" — was called out in a complaint letter, First Liberty Institute said.
In a brief note on its website titled, "Victory: Michigan High School Student No Longer Censored,Michigan High School Student No Longer Censored," First Liberty said Hillsdale High School reversed its decision preventing Elizabeth Turner from referencing her faith.
"We are grateful to school officials for acting swiftly to ensure that religious students can freely exercise their right to express their faith in a graduation speech," Keisha Russell, Counsel for First Liberty Institute, said. "Elizabeth is thrilled that she'll be able to celebrate her graduation without being censored. We hope that future graduates will be free from religious censorship."
Turner noted that she's "grateful I will be able to share my faith with my classmates, and I pray that God uses this situation to advance His kingdom."
What's the background?
According to First Liberty, one section of Turner's speech noted, "For me, my future hope is found in my relationship with Christ. By trusting in him and choosing to live a life dedicated to bringing his kingdom glory, I can be confident that I am living a life with purpose and meaning. My identity is found by what God says and who I want to become is laid out in scripture."
The legal firm said the school's principal, Amy Goldsmith, reacted by highlighting that paragraph, along with a second, and telling Turner that "you are representing the school in the speech, not using the podium as your public forum. We need to be mindful about the inclusion of religious aspects. These are your strong beliefs, but they are not appropriate for a speech in a school public setting. I know this will frustrate you, but we have to be mindful of it."
Image source: First Liberty Institute
What happened next?
Turner got in touch with First Liberty, and the law firm said it sent a letter to Goldsmith informing her that she's "violating federal law, which permits private religious speech at school events, and demanding that she allow Elizabeth to reference her faith."
First Liberty also said student graduation speeches constitute private speech, not government speech, and private speech is not subject to the Establishment Clause. The law firm added that Turner's statements "do not transform into government speech simply because they are delivered in a public setting or to a public audience."
The letter concluded by requesting that Goldsmith "allow Elizabeth Turner to express her private religious beliefs at the graduation ceremony on June 6, 2021. Please confirm that you agree to our request by Friday, May 28, 2021 at 5PM."
(H/T: Christian Post)Idaho Gov. Brad Little (R) on Friday repealed an executive order overriding local mask mandates, blasting his Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin (R) for issuing the order in his absence.
"The action that took place was an irresponsible, self-serving political stunt," Little said in a statement.
The governor accused McGeachin's order of usurping legislative powers with an "over-the-top executive action" that "amounts to tyranny." His repeal order aims to "restore local control" over public health ordinances, permitting Idaho localities to impose mask mandates, including for children, if they deem it necessary to protect public health.
Idaho never adopted a statewide mask mandate because Little believed a top-down order from the state government would violate conservative principles respecting local government.
Earlier this week, Little was out of state to attend a meeting of the Republican Governors Association in Nashville, Tennessee. Idaho law elevates the lieutenant governor to serve as acting governor with all the governor's powers "in case of temporary inability to perform his duties or in the case of his temporary absence from the state."
While he was away, McGeachin used her temporary authority to issue the executive order banning local governments from implementing mask mandates.
McGeachin announced last week that she will run in the Republican primary for governor. She did not notify Little, her primary opponent, of her intention to issue the order.
"Taking the earliest opportunity to act solitarily on a highly politicized, polarizing issue without conferring with local jurisdictions, legislators and the sitting governor is, simply put, an abuse of power," Little said, blasting McGeachin. "This kind of over-the-top executive action amounts to tyranny — something we all oppose."
Little accused McGeachin's order of violating Idaho state law, which provides that school district trustees, cities, counties, and public health districts have the power to enact policies to protect pubic health. The law also prohibits executive orders from changing state law.
"How ironic that the action comes from a person who has groused about tyranny, executive overreach, and balance of power for months," Little said.
"Furthermore, the executive order presents some pretty alarming consequences," he continued. "For example, we would not be able to require safety measures for social workers visiting homes of at-risk individuals, or workers in our state testing lab, or employees at congregate facilities that are particularly vulnerable to outbreaks of infectious disease, threatening loss of life and added strain on the health care system we all depend on."
Then his statement got personal:
The executive order also conflicts with other laws on the books.
This is why you do your homework, Lt. Governor.
Let me offer some advice as Idaho's duly elected Governor – governing in a silo is NOT governing.
I am always reluctant to engage in political ploys, especially when I have been steadfast in meeting the simultaneous goals of protecting both lives and livelihoods.
I do not like petty politics. I do not like political stunts over the rule of law.
However, the significant consequences of the Lt. Governor's flimsy executive order require me to clean up a mess.
Responding, McGeachin told supporters in a statement that Gov. Little "chose to revoke your personal freedom by rescinding my order and imposing mask mandates on thousands of Idaho children."
"I understand that protecting individual liberty means fighting against tyranny at ALL levels of government — federal, state, and local. It is your God-given right to make your own health decisions, and no state, city, or school district ever has the authority to violate your unalienable rights," McGeachin said.
"As your Lt. Governor, I remain undeterred and unwavering in my commitment to defend your rights and freedoms against all who would violate them. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against those who prioritize their own power above individual liberty."A Christian physical education teacher has been placed on administrative leave after declaring in a speech that he would not "lie" to his students and "defile" God by affirming that "a biological boy can be a girl and vice versa," Fox News reported.
What are the details?
The teacher, Byron "Tanner" Cross, made the defiant declaration at a Loudon County school board meeting on Tuesday, according to the nonprofit group, Parents Against Critical Race Theory.
During the speech, Cross voiced his opposition to new transgender-affirming policies pushed by the school district that require all staff use a student's preferred gender pronouns and permitted transgender students to participate in activities consistent with their gender identity, rather than their biological sex.
"My name is Tanner Cross and I am speaking out of love for those who are suffering from gender dysphoria," Cross said at the opening of his speech.
"'60 Minutes' this past Sunday interviewed over 30 young people who transitioned, but they felt led astray because of lack of pushback or how easy it was to make physical changes to their bodies in just three months. They are now de-transitioning," he continued.
Loudoun County teacher put on administrative leave after speaking to the school board. youtu.be
"It's not my intention to hurt anyone, but there are certain truths that we must face when ready. We condemn school policies like 8040 and [8350] because it will damage children [and] defile the holy image of God," Cross added.
"I love all of my students but I will never lie to them regardless of the consequences. I'm a teacher but I serve God first and I will not affirm that a biological boy can be a girl, and vice versa, because it's against my religion," he explained. "It's lying to a child, it's abuse to a child, and it's sinning against our God."
What else?
In an email reportedly obtained by PACT and shown to Fox News, Leesburg Elementary Principal Shawn Lacey informed parents that Cross had been placed on administrative leave.
"I'm contacting you to let you know that one of our physical education teachers, Tanner Cross, is on leave beginning this morning," Lacey said in the email. "In his absence, his duties will be covered by substitute staff already working in our building. I wanted you to know this because it may affect your student's school routine. Because this involves a personnel matter, I can offer no further information."
Loudon County Public Schools confirmed to Fox News that Lacey sent the email regarding Cross, but noted that noted that "the decision to place an employee on leave is not the principal's."
The spokesperson went on to say, "The contents of personnel files are confidential under state and federal law. I cannot comment other to say that Mr. Cross is on administrative leave with pay."
Anything else?
According to LCPS documents, policy 8040 specifies that, "School staff shall, at the request of a student or parent/legal guardian, when using a name or pronoun to address the student, use the name and pronoun that correspond to their gender identity. The use of gender-neutral pronouns are appropriate."
It adds: "Inadvertent slips in the use of names or pronouns may occur; however, staff or students who intentionally and persistently refuse to respect a student's gender identity by using the wrong name and gender pronoun are in violation of this policy."
Policy 8350 states: "LCPS staff shall allow gender-expansive and transgender students to 37 participate in such activities in a manner consistent with the student's gender identity."Jurors in the murder trial of Cristhian Bahena Rivera on Friday found the defendant guilty in the 2018 killing of 20-year-old University of Iowa student Mollie Tibbetts.
The guilty verdict concludes trial proceedings that began two weeks ago at the Scott County Courthouse in Davenport, Iowa. Bahena Rivera, 26, faced a first-degree murder charge for which he was convicted.
The jury deliberated for more than three hours Thursday afternoon before breaking and resuming deliberations Friday morning. They broke for lunch around 1:30 p.m. ET and reached the verdict at around 2:00 p.m., the Des Moines Register reports.
Reacting to the guilty verdict, Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley (R) said "justice was served."
"Iowans' hearts broke when Mollie Tibbetts was murdered by an undocumented immigrant in 2018," he tweeted. "[Today] the murderer was found guilty & justice was served for a senseless act of violence that took a young life."
Tibbetts' disappearance after going out for a jog in her hometown of Brooklyn, Iowa and the subsequent month-long search for her became a national news story in 2018. Her body wasn't discovered until Bahena Rivera led police to where it was hidden after confessing to her killing during interrogation.
After police arrested Bahena Rivera for her murder, his immigration status made the killing politically charged. Then-President Donald Trump called Tibbett's death a "disgrace" at campaign rallies, advocating for tougher laws on crime and increased border security to deter illegal immigration.
During the trial, the defense argued that Bahena Rivera gave a false confession to police and observed that investigators never found a murder weapon nor produced witnesses showing where Tibbetts was killed.
Testifying in his own defense, Bahena Rivera claimed two armed, masked men forced him to help abduct Tibbetts and hide her body, contradicting what he previously told police.
The defense also attempted to tie the killing to Tibbetts' boyfriend, Dalton Jack, arguing investigators did not look at him thoroughly.
The prosecution told the jury that "overwhelming evidence" pointed to Bahena Rivera as the killer, citing his confession and producing a witness that testified that Jack was more than two-hours away from where Tibbetts was when she disappeared.
Prosecutor Scott Brown said Bahena Rivera's testimony was a "figment of his imagination." He argued that the defendant drove past Tibbetts as she was jogging on July 18, 2018 and made advances towards her.
After she rejected him, Bahena Rivera got angry, the prosecution said.
"The way he reacts with that anger is to stab this young woman to death and to dump her body in a cornfield," Brown told the jury.
Now convicted, Bahena Rivera faces life in prison for Tibbetts' murder.
Editor's note: This story was updated on Friday May 28, 2021 at 3:40 p.m. ET.Inflation in April surged to its highest level since 1992, according to a Friday report from the U.S. government, surpassing economists' predictions.
The report comes as President Joe Biden is poised to introduce a massive $6 trillion budget.
What are the details?
On Friday, New York Times reporter Jeanna Smialek wrote, "The Bureau of Economic Analysis' personal consumption expenditure inflation measure climbed 3.6 percent in April from the prior year — the strongest reading in 13 years and more than the 3.5 percent gain that economists in a Bloomberg survey had expected."
The report continued, "The core price index, which strip out volatile food and fuel prices, rose 3.1 percent in the year through April — the fastest pace since 1992. Prices rose 0.7 percent compared with the prior month, the biggest increase in two decades."
Smialek added, "The pickup in inflation is coming as rebounding demand and supply shortages push costs higher, along with data quirks that are increasing the annual number. The inflation gauge is closely watched because it is the Federal Reserve's favorite, and officials are carefully monitoring the pickup in prices as the economy reopens."
In a note following the release, Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, wrote, "The combination of falling real consumption and soaring prices last month gives off a faint whiff of stagflation."
The report added, "The figures are the latest to underline that the economy is in for a bumpy ride as it reopens from months of state and local lockdowns meant to contain the coronavirus pandemic."
What else?
On Thursday night, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) said that Biden's proposed budget was both extreme and expensive.
“Think about what we're saying right here — this is what everyone has ever warned us about," McCarthy told Fox News host Sean Hannity. “That your debt becomes so large, it's more than a hundred percent of your GDP. There's no coming back from that. This sounds like Venezuela or Cuba. Even Obama's economists tell you this is wrong. And when he's doing it is wrong. He's doing it with an economy that's come booming back. So, what's he doing? Creating inflation. He's rewarding people not to work."
He added, “In a short five months, he's put us in a place we haven't seen since Jimmy Carter. If he simply did nothing, he would make America stronger, but by these actions will put into doubt. Everyone will get their taxes increased. Inflation will come. So whatever money you have will be devalued. This is what happened to Venezuela. And before our very eyes, we cannot allow this to go forward."
Indeed, Larry Summers, an economist who worked as an official under both former Democratic Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, recently said that he believed Biden was overextending the U.S. with the proposed budget, CNN Business reported Thursday, and issued a stark warning.
“We're taking very substantial risks on the inflation side," Summers said in remarks delivered at a recent CoinDesk conference. “The Fed's idea used to be that it removed the punch bowl before the party got good. Now, the Fed's doctrine is that it will only remove the punch bowl after it sees some people staggering around drunk."
Summers pointed out that he supports the president's ambitions in raising the nationwide minimum wage as well as bolstering unions, he believes that such policies can be "inflationary," according to CNBC, which is why he has been "troubled by the policy posture" of Biden's administration.
"Joe Biden has a historic opportunity to be a great president," Summer said. "But I think [the administration] should learn the lesson of the Johnson administration's errors that elected Richard Nixon and the Carter administration's errors that elected Ronald Reagan."
A Biden official told CNN Business on Tuesday that officials "do not see signs of persistent dislocation or long-term inflation."
The official added, "Our team closely monitors inflationary pressures but inflation is first and foremost under the purview of the Federal Reserve."
Anything else?
Biden repeatedly vowed to avoid raising taxes on Americans making less than $400,000. However, the White House changed the threshold to apply to families instead.
The New York Times reported this week that Biden's $6 trillion budget, which he is set to unveil Friday, "would take the United States to its highest sustained levels of federal spending since World War II." The $6 trillion budget is predicted to swell to $8.2 trillion in total annual spending by 2031.
The Times revealed that, in order to pay for the budget, Biden will, indeed, increase taxes on most wage-earners by allowing the Trump tax cuts for low- and middle-income Americans to expire in 2025.Six Republican senators broke with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) on Friday and voted for legislation that would create a 9/11-style commission to investigate the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol.
The final vote for the commission was 54 senators in favor and 35 against, short of the 60 votes needed to break a filibuster from the Republican minority. Sens. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Mitt Romney (R-Utah), and Susan Collins (R-Maine) voted for the commission with all present Democrats.
Two Democratic senators were absent. Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), who is retiring after his current term, missed the vote for a family commitment but would have voted "yes," a spokesman told NBC News.
The bill, which was negotiated by House Homeland Security Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.) and ranking member Rep. John Katko (R-N.Y.), passed in the House last week by a vote of 252-175, with 35 Republicans joining Democrats in favor.
The bipartisan agreement would have created a commission with 10 members, five appointed by each party, that had the power to issue subpoenas with the agreement of both the Democratic chair and Republican vice-chair or a majority vote of the committee's members.
Republican leadership came out in opposition to the commission, with House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) claiming it would be "duplicative" and "potentially counterproductive" given ongoing bipartisan investigations into the events of Jan. 6 and criminal investigations conducted by U.S. law enforcement. Sen. McConnell echoed McCarthy's concerns, called it a "purely political exercise," and lobbied his Republican colleagues to oppose the bill.
Democrats and the media excoriated Republicans for opposing the bill, accusing them of covering-up what happened on Jan. 6 out of fealty to Trump.
Several Republicans feared the commission could be used by Democrats to politically bludgeon the Republican Party as the 2022 midterm elections approach. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) told supporters in a video that the purpose of the commission was to damage Republicans.
"The Democrats control committees in the House; they control committees in the Senate. They can do investigations. Some of them already are. We're going to learn from that. Capitol Police has already done its own commission about what went wrong that day. We've already learned from that," Rubio said. "So there's plenty of attention already being paid to this — not to mention that the media, who doesn't stop talking about it, they're also looking at it. So everyone's looking at it. There's no cover-up."
"They have this thing that says in order to issue a subpoena, you need both the Republican and the Democratic side, evenly divided, to agree with it. But that's not the point for politics; you don't actually need the subpoena. All you need is a story out there saying, 'Congressman so-and-so -- they want to subpoena him or her, but they can't because the Republicans are blocking it,'" he explained.
"And then the stories are going to be, number one, it creates this impression that maybe Congressman so-and-so did something wrong -- why would they want to subpoena him? And number two, the story will be 'Republicans are covering up the investigation into Congressman so-and-so.'"
But the Republicans who voted for the commission said an independent probe was needed for the truth about what happened on Jan. 6 to come out.
Sen. Romney said Wednesday "Republicans would be seen as not wanting to let the truth come out" if they voted against the bill. "I don't believe that's what's the motivation but I think that's the perception," he added.
Sen. Murkowski lambasted her GOP colleagues who opposed the bill.
"We just can't pretend that nothing bad happened, or that people just got too excitable. Something bad happened. And it's important to lay that out," she told reporters Thursday evening.
"To be making a decision for the short-term political gain at the expense of understanding and acknowledging what was in front of us, on January 6th, I think we need to look at that critically," she said.
After the vote, Sen. Cassidy released a statement explaining why he voted "yes," saying an independent commission would have guaranteed Republicans have "equal power" over the investigation's proceedings.
"Without this commission, there will still be an investigation. But it will be a House select-committee set up by Speaker Pelosi — the nature of which will be entirely dictated by Democrats and would stretch on for years," Cassidy said.
"I am concerned about Speaker Pelosi's role regarding the lack of adequate security at the Capitol on the day of the vote certification. It's hard to believe that an investigation entirely run by Democrats would fully evaluate this concern. We can be more confident that the independent commission would thoroughly investigate this issue," he continued.
"The investigations will happen with or without Republicans," Cassidy said. "To ensure the investigations are fair, impartial, and focused on the facts, Republicans need to be involved."Just one day after condemning acts of antisemitism in a lengthy letter to the campus community at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey, the two administrators who signed the initial letter caved to the leftist mob and actually apologized.
What are the details?
In their initial letter Wednesday, Rutgers-New Brunswick Chancellor Christopher J. Molloy and Provost Francine Conway told the campus community they were "saddened by and greatly concerned about the sharp rise in hostile sentiments and anti-Semitic violence in the United States. Recent incidents of hate directed toward Jewish members of our community again remind us of what history has to teach us."
They added that "this recent resurgence of anti-Semitism demands that we again call out and denounce acts of hate and prejudice against members of the Jewish community and any other targeted and oppressed groups on our campus and in our community."
Free Palestine protesters dance on Israeli Flag and Burn it in Midtown, Manhattan youtu.be
The letter also said that "our Student Affairs Office is already working in close partnership with leaders of the Rutgers Jewish community, and meetings have been held with students to assess and respond to their needs. If you are aware of hate incidents on campuses or places that have been made unsafe due to expressed bigotry and other unacceptable and insensitive acts, please report them using the bias reporting system."
Oops
As you might expect, the administrators' letter didn't sit too well with Palestinian-supporting leftists. In particular, Students for Justice in Palestine were none too pleased, saying the very next day on Instagram that they are "deeply concerned" about the statement from Molloy and Conway, which "conveniently ignores the extent to which Palestinians have been brutalized by Israel's occupation and bombing of Gaza."
Caving to the woke mob
Well, Molloy and Conway didn't waste much time — and just one day after their joint condemnation of antisemitism, the pair issued another letter to the campus community titled, "An Apology."
The pair wrote in the letter that their message sent the previous day "fell short" and that "it is clear to us that the message failed to communicate support for our Palestinian community members. We sincerely apologize for the hurt that this message has caused."
The rest of the short note reads:
Rutgers University-New Brunswick is a community that is enriched by our vibrant diversity. However, our diversity must be supported by equity, inclusion, antiracism, and the condemnation of all forms of bigotry and hatred, including anti-Semitism and Islamophobia. As we grow in our personal and institutional understanding, we will take the lesson learned here to heart, and pledge our commitment to doing better. We will work to regain your trust, and make sure that our communications going forward are much more sensitive and balanced.
Our goal of creating a beloved community will not be easy, and while we may make mistakes along the way; we hope we can all learn from them as we continue this vital work together.
Anything else?
The Anti-Defamation League on Thursday noted that it had seen a 75% spike in antisemitic attacks in America in the last two weeks amid fighting between Israel and Hamas:
New York City and Los Angeles probe anti-semitic attacks youtu.be
(H/T: Daily Caller)Police in Van Buren County, Michigan, say that a man held a woman against her will for three weeks and nearly beat her to death after the two met on an online dating app.
What are the details?
Trevor Double, 45, was arrested and booked on three felony charges, including two related to assault, for his violent treatment of 24-year-old Kaila McCleary over a three-week period, WWMT-TV reported on Monday.
Van Buren County Deputy Sgt. James Charon told the news outlet that McCleary was lucky to be alive after suffering repeated beatings and being left with bruises and abrasions all over her body, including a gash on her leg that required 17 stitches.
"I haven't been home for over a month," McCleary reportedly said. "This whole thing has been horrific."
Double allegedly prevented McCleary from leaving his residence, using his fists, phones, an iron, and even a hatchet to injure her and keep her from leaving. He reportedly threatened to kill her multiple times and even threatened to harm her young son, who was living elsewhere at the time.
"I was terrified," McCleary recalled. "Life flashed in front of my eyes. I thought he would kill me."
What happened?
The two reportedly met on the dating app MeetMe and spoke for several weeks before going on a first date, McCleary said. Then in early April, Double showed up at McCleary's home unannounced to take her out to breakfast. McCleary wouldn't return home for nearly a month.
Over the next several weeks, Double held McCleary against her will at his home, accusing her of cheating on him and beating her for it.
"When I told him I wanted to leave, he would beat on me more," McCleary recalled. "I remember a few times, standing there when he was asleep, and just questioning, like, 'Should I go outside and try to get away? What should I do?'"
On May 7, McCleary's injuries got so bad that Double agreed to take her to a nearby hospital for treatment. While there, she alerted hospital staff that her life was in danger.
Acting on the tip, detectives executed a search of Double's home and reportedly found bloody gauze in the trash and a broken cellphone, believed to be used in one of the assaults.
Authorities eventually identified the suspect and apprehended him at a local hotel. Double was charged with assault with intent to do great bodily harm less than murder, assault with a dangerous weapon, and being a habitual offender.
Anything else?
According to police documents, Double has a prior criminal history and was out on bond during the incident involving McCleary. He was convicted of manslaughter in 2004 and was released on probation in January 2013, court records show.
McCleary said that she had no idea about Double's criminal past and noted that he went by the name Alex James when he was with her.
Double is expected to appear in court on June 2.Officer Nate Silvester says that he has been fired after a video of him mocking Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James went viral.
What's a very brief history here?
Silvester made headlines in April after sharing video of himself in uniform pretending to phone James for guidance on how to properly assist a fictional stabbing encounter in a mocked-up police call.
Silvester made the video in response to James' posting a photo of the officer involved in the police shooting of Ohio teen Ma'Khia Bryant and captioning it, "YOU'RE NEXT. #ACCOUNTABILITY."
Silvester, who worked for the Bellevue Marshal's Office in Idaho, was suspended shortly after the video emerged on the internet.
What are the details?
In an interview with Fox News' Sean Hannity, Silvester said that he lost his job because of cancel culture.
"I am the latest target of cancel culture," he insisted. "That's all it is."
Silvester also told the Fox host that he was simply trying to "humanize the badge."
"None of my other videos that depicted me in my uniform or involving body camera footage, none of those mattered," he said. "They didn't care about those. It wasn't until my LeBron James TikTok struck a political nerve that they started to pay attention and complain about it and came up with forms of discipline."
Hannity, in response to Silvester's allegations, said that the former officer should "sue their asses off."
Silvester responded, "I am still trying to wrap my head around that. I was just fired this morning."
The former law enforcement official also said that he is considering continuing his career in law enforcement, and says that he's received offers "from different agencies and elected officials from across the country."
"It's not off the table," he insisted.
'Last chance agreement'
In a Facebook statement, Bellevue Mayor Ned Burns said that Silvester was fired on Thursday for "continued policy violations" after he was reportedly on a "last chance agreement" with superiors.
"The policy violations have nothing to do with the tone or tenor of his speech that he posts online," the post explained. "He was not terminated for the content of his speech; he was terminated for his failure to follow clearly laid out and well-established policy."
The post continued, "The decision was solely made by the command structure within the Bellevue Marshals [sic] office and was not influenced in any way by me or by the City Council."
'Gunning for Nate's termination'
At the time of this writing, a GoFundMe page to benefit the newly unemployed police officer has received more than $530,000 — a total that continues to climb as the days go by.
On Thursday, Gannon Ward, the page's organizer, shared an update on Silvester's firing and wrote, "Unofficially, as I stated originally, Bellevue mayor Ned Burns has been gunning for Nate's termination since his Lebron James TikTok went viral. We have heard through the grape vine this is coming down the pipes, it was only a matter of time, and they were just looking for a reason to terminate him."President Joe Biden has repeatedly promised not to raise taxes on people making less than $400,000. It was a staple of his presidential campaign, and he continued to say it after being sworn in.
Most conservatives and honest observers didn't believe him at the time. They saw his agenda, understood the price tag would be huge, and figured higher taxes for everyone would be inevitable.
The New York Times revealed this week that skeptics were right to give his "no taxes" vow the side eye after it obtained Biden administration documents showing the president's actual tax-and-spend plans.
What is the administration planning?
Less than two months into his first term, the president's team already began changing the terms of Biden's promise. No longer would his promise to not raise taxes apply to individuals making less than $400,000 — instead, the threshold would apply to families, CNBC reported.
Now, as the White House prepares to officially present its new budget, it appears that Biden's promise is getting another revision.
The Times reported Thursday that the president's massive new budget, which he will unveil Friday, "would take the United States to its highest sustained levels of federal spending since World War II."
Biden's budget, which starts with a $6 trillion spending plan for this year, would increase total annual spending to $8.2 trillion by 2031.
A spending plan that large will naturally require higher taxes — a fact the Times acknowledged, saying that the plan includes raising taxes on corporations and high earners.
But everyone knows that won't be enough to cover all the new spending, particularly since the administration has said the "jobs and families plan would be fully offset by tax increases over the course of 15 years," the Times noted.
So, where will those extra tax dollars come from?
The Times exposed what the text of the documents it obtained: tax hikes for all income levels.
"The documents forecast that Mr. Biden and Congress will allow tax cuts for low- and middle-income Americans, signed into law by President Donald J. Trump in 2017, to expire as scheduled in 2025," the Times reported. "Mr. Biden has said he will not raise taxes on people earning less than $400,000 a year. It is possible that he could propose to extend the Trump tax cuts for those earners in a future budget, potentially coupled with additional tax increases on high earners or businesses."
But there are zero reports of any such proposal even being discussed by this White House.
Republicans blasted the massive budget plan and the coming tax hikes for middle and lower incomes.
"President Biden's budget blunder sets us up for an even worse economic recovery than the Obama-Biden record of the slowest in history," House Ways and Means ranking Republican Kevin Brady (Texas) said, according to the Times. "Lower- and middle-income families are already suffering under the stealth tax of higher prices. Now the president wants their income taxes to go up as well."After pausing political donations for several months, Facebook's political action committee will resume campaign contributions to members of Congress but will not donate to anyone who voted against certifying the 2020 presidential election, the company told employees on Thursday.
Buzzfeed News was the first to report on an internal announcement from Brian Rice, a public policy director at Facebook, that said the decision was made after the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol and a review of Facebook's contribution policies.
"As a result of our review, the FBPAC Board has decided to resume contributions, but not to any members of Congress who voted against certifying the 2020 election following the events at the Capitol on January 6," Rice said in an internal memo. "While a contribution to a candidate for office does not mean that we agree with every policy or position that a candidate may espouse, we believe this decision is appropriate given the unprecedented events in January."
Facebook, Amazon, Google, and Microsoft each announced a halt to political campaign contributions in January after the riot at the Capitol. Facebook said at the time it would conduct an internal review of its donation policies before resuming political spending.
As a result of Facebook's new policy, the company will not donate to eight senators and 139 members of the House of Representatives. All 147 lawmakers who voted against certifying the Electoral College results are Republicans, including prominent Facebook critics Sens. Ted Cruz (Texas) and Josh Hawley (Mo.).
The contribution ban comes as a growing number of Republican lawmakers at both the state and federal level seek to break up Big Tech companies in retribution for censorship.
After Facebook's oversight board upheld the company's decision to deplatform former President Donald Trump, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) vowed to "rein in big tech power over our speech." Sen. Hawley, a longtime critic of tech companies, called Facebook a "monopoly" and advocated for Republicans to take antitrust action against the social media giant.
Democrats have also expressed criticism of the power and influence of tech giants, though their criticisms differ from Republicans in that they believe social media platforms do not do enough to stop the spread of "misinformation" and want increased censorship of what they consider to be "fake news."
Facebook currently faces antitrust lawsuits from 46 state attorneys general and two territories as well as the Federal Trade Commission.On the latest episode of "The Rubin Report," BlazeTV host Dave Rubin gave his take on a clip from the Black News Channel in which former CNN contributor Marc Lamont Hill spoke with Manhattan Institute senior fellow Christopher Rufo about why he is against critical race theory being taught in schools.
During a recent episode of "Black News Tonight," Hill repeatedly tried to bait Rufo into making racist generalizations on camera. Rufo argued that topics such as slavery and segregation should be taught in schools and even acknowledged that racism in America's history is "an incontrovertible fact."
Apparently, unsatisfied with Rufo's refusal to cast all white people in a negative light, Hill repeatedly asked his guest to "name something you like about being white."
Dave played a video clip in which Rufo first answers:
There's a lot of documents that are floating around public schools that say things like timeliness, showing up on time is a white supremacist value or a white-dominant value. Things like rationality, things like the enlightenment, things like objectivity — these are very strange things to be ascribed to a racial identity. My view is that these actually should be ascribed to every individual human being, every individual human being regardless of whatever racial category we impose on them.
Asked a second time to "name something you believe is positive about being white," Rufo answered:
Again, I don't buy into the framework that the world can be reduced into these metaphysical categories of whiteness and blackness. I think that's wrong. I think we should look at people as individuals. I think we should celebrate different people's accomplishments.... You mentioned Ignatiev. Ignatiev says the goal is to "abolish" the white race. In any other context, this would be interpreted as a near genocidal slur. I don't buy into it. The reason I'm not going to answer your question is I reject that categorization. I think of myself as an individual human being with my own capabilities, and I would hope that we could both judge each other as individuals and come to common values on that basis.
After watching the exchange, Dave asked, "Who is the racist in that conversation? Who is trying to racialize everything, and who's trying to de-racialize everything?"
"Rufo repeatedly points out he wants people to be treated as individuals," Dave noted. "He doesn't even buy into the argument, but Marc Lamont Hill is playing a very dangerous game right there."
Watch the video below for more from Dave Rubin:
Want more from Dave Rubin?
To enjoy more honest conversations, free speech, and big ideas with Dave Rubin, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.An Oregon eighth-grade teacher was recorded on a Zoom video session warning fellow teachers they will be "fired" if they don't "come to the light" and become "anti-racist."
What are the details?
Katherine Watkins — a humanities teacher at Cedar Park Middle School in the Beaverton School District — was decked out in what appeared to be African-inspired garb as she introduced herself with the pronouns "she, her, we, and us."
Then later in the session she declared, "I'm gonna say somethin' that's not nice and not sweet, but it's true" — and then read her colleagues the riot act.
If you're not evolving into an anti-racist educator, you're making yourself obsolete. ... Our district is only getting browner and browner [with respect to students]. ... Obviously, you can't change your melanin, all right? But you can change your mind so that you can actually function in a district that is full of BIPOC [black, indigenous, and people of color] children. So if you're being resistant, I understand that. But you're gonna have to eventually come to the light. Because if you're going to keep with those old views of colonialism, it's gonna lead to being fired. Because you're going to be doing damage to our children — trauma. And so as we fire the teachers who sexually abuse our children, we will be firing the teachers who do racist things to our children and traumatize them. And while our district might not be completely on there, [the Oregon Education Association] is working on it, all right? [The National Education Association] is working on it. And so it's just a matter of time; so it's like you either evolve or dissolve.
Here's the clip:
The Daily Caller said it reached out to the Beaverton School District for comment but did not receive a response at the time of publication.
Anything else?
Watkins' LinkedIn page indicates she's an "Antiracist Educator" who's "Racial Trauma Informed" and also is a speaker and writer. She's been a teacher since 1998, has taught in the Beaverton School District for more than 16 years, and holds master's degrees in education and creative writing.
The above clip was taken from a longer session on adopting anti-racism in the district. At the beginning of the session Watkins introduces herself along with others. Later in the session — just after the 23-minute mark — she launches into her "not nice and not sweet" speech.
The group that posted the longer session to YouTube — Parents Defending Education — indicated in the clip's description that the session took place in February and was titled "Equity ABAR Summit: If Not You Then Who?" The description said "ABAR" stands for "anti-bias, anti-racism" teaching related to critical race theory. And as TheBlaze has reported, many folks are pushing back hard against critical race theory.After only about two months of serious deliberation, the Chicago Police Department on Wednesday unveiled a new policy that largely ends the practice of officers pursuing suspects on foot.
Under the new policy, set in motion following the recent police shootings of 13-year-old Adam Toledo and 22-year-old Anthony Alvarez, officers are not permitted to chase individuals suspected of committing a minor traffic offense or low-level misdemeanor unless that individual poses an "obvious threat" to the community.
The policy also urges officers to seek ways to avoid foot chases altogether, directing them to perhaps set up a perimeter, conduct surveillance, or consider whether the suspect could be apprehended at another time or place.
Ultimately, officers will be forced — in the heat of the moment — to weigh the potential risk to public safety against the need for immediate apprehension.
"Officers must ask themselves if the need to apprehend the subject is worth the risk to the responding officers, the public, or the offender," CPD Superintendent David Brown said during a news conference Wednesday.
"This [will] give officers an opportunity, maybe to slow things down and have a better outcome when they're trying to capture suspects," he added. "That is the intent of a foot pursuit policy, you know ... let's use de-escalation, let's set up a perimeter if need be. Let's choose the right place to capture him and the right time to capture him or her."
As if that wasn't enough already to consider when deciding whether or not to pursue a suspect on foot, officers are also instructed to discontinue ongoing foot chases if they become separated from their partner, are unaware of their location, someone is injured, if there is excessive distance or nearby obstacles preventing an apprehension, or if they will not be able to control the subject of the chase in a confrontation.
Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot, who led the charge for foot chase reform following Toledo's and Alvarez's deaths, praised the new policy as "a step forward in our mission to modernize and reform our police department."
But critics are calling the policy an overreaction that will inevitably empower criminals and lead to more crime on the streets.
Chicago's Fraternal Order of Police President John Catanzara noted that "Chicago recovers more weapons than New York and [Los Angeles] combined" and that "most of those weapons are recovered either as the result of a vehicle stop or a foot chase."
In April, Lightfoot even acknowledged the potential danger that could result from such a policy, saying, "I don't want people out there who are dangerous to think, 'Well, if I just run, then I'm safe, and I can continue to wreak havoc' ... We can't live in that world either."
The guidance released Wednesday will serve as an "interim" policy that will go into effect June 11, after which, the public and an independent monitor will weigh in.Editor's note: The headline of this story has been updated. The previous headline gave the implication that the restaurant put up the sign. As the report below indicates, it is unknown who posted the sign, and police have said they believe the sign might have been posted without the business' knowledge.
--
Authorities have launched a criminal investigation into a sign that was reportedly posted at a Popeyes restaurant in Lake Saint Louis, Missouri, announcing that the fast-food restaurant reserved the "right to refuse service to white people."
What are the details?
A photo of the sign — which was reportedly affixed to an area in the restaurant's drive-thru — was widely circulated across social media platforms Wednesday, and said, "Effective 6-1-21 This restaurant is under new management and will reserve the right to refuse service to white people. We apologize for any inconvenience. Signed, General Manager, Mason."
The restaurant was forced to close on Wednesday over the outcry.
According to KTVI-TV, Lake Saint Louis police said that they believe someone may have erected the sign "unbeknownst to the business" and added that the sign could be related to an act of vandalism that took place at the store earlier in May. The vandalism, according to Lt. Pat Doering of the Lake Saint Louis Police Department, said that the vandalism included shattered glass and obscene messages painted on the restaurant's drive-thru menu.
A statement from the department said, "We are currently working and investigating a trespassing and possibly a related vandalism case which occurred at Popeyes located at 6475 Ronald Reagan Drive in Lake Saint Louis. Earlier this month, several drive through menu signs were spray-painted. Today, unknown subjects posted an inappropriate sign on the drive-thru window, unbeknownst to the business."
A manager, who remains unnamed at the time of this reporting, said that surveillance video of the building "confirms employees didn't post the sign."
In a statement to KTVI, Popeyes said, "We have been made aware of the situation and are investigating the matter immediately. This type of behavior does not align with our brand values and we take such allegations very seriously. The franchise is cooperating with local authorities regarding this ongoing investigation."It's not just conservative counties pushing for Second Amendment "sanctuaries." Leftist-controlled cities have become a haven for guns with de facto open and concealed carry without the requirement of a permit ... so long as the owner has a criminal record, assaults people with the gun, and is of the right ilk.
Crime has skyrocketed in my part of Baltimore County, with carjackings and muggings a daily occurrence within blocks of where I live. I told my wife that I should carry a gun in my holster despite the laws on the books in Maryland because all the criminals holding people up with guns never seem to serve a day in jail, despite their criminal records. Thus, indeed there is a right to carry in the state of Maryland.
"Yes, but not for people like you, honey," my wife said. "You'll get in big trouble if you're caught defending yourself with a gun."
With skyrocketing homicide rates throughout the country, White House press secretary Jen Psaki was asked on Monday if there was a crime problem in America.
"Well, I would say certainly there is a guns problem, and that's something the President would say," Psaki replied.
It's funny because I have a lot of guns and I never harm people with them. Nor do any of my friends. America's revolution of right-to-carry laws (and loosening of gun laws in general) began in the '90s, coinciding perfectly with the miraculous decline in violent crime. Yet, in recent years, crime has skyrocketed, especially in the places with the strictest gun laws. What gives?
Indeed, we don't have a gun problem, we have a violent criminal problem because criminals are no longer kept behind bars, particularly those who commit violence with guns. Exhibit A is the city of Chicago.
One would think with the way Democrats talk about guns, they would lock someone up for life if they were caught assaulting someone with a gun. Yet, just in January of this year, CWB Chicago, a local news outlet that focuses on crime, chronicled five cases of gun felons committing murder while out on bail for serious felony charges.
In the last case, Demetris Johnson, who had a criminal record dating back to 2011 when he was arrested but not convicted for murder, had numerous gun felony charges when he eventually was arrested for murder on Jan. 27 of this year. On his last gun charge, despite his criminal record and being charged Class X armed habitual criminal, unlawful use of a weapon by a felon with a previous gun conviction, and failure to register as a gun offender, Johnson was released on just $3,000 bail.
After failing to show up for his next court date, the original judge ordered him held without bail, but another judge allowed him to be released on electronic monitoring after posting just $20,000 bond. Not surprisingly he failed to show up to his next court date on Oct. 6, 2020, but was released again by Judge Joan O'Brien on electronic monitoring! He was arrested for murder less than four months later.
That, in a nutshell, is why Chicago is the way it is today. Leftist judges and politicians hate incarceration more than they disdain guns, including guns that are actually discharged against innocent people. Hence, we have a major criminal problem, not a gun problem.
The de-incarceration movement is trying to convince the public that "supervised release" and ankle bracelets are as good as jail, but as we have seen over and over again, they never deter a committed career violent criminal. An understaffed Chicago police force must now monitor 94 accused murderers, 261 people convicted of two or more felonies, 534 people charged as felons in possession of a weapon, and 569 individuals who have been accused of aggravated unlawful use of a weapon all on ankle monitors.
Just four years ago, there were only 31 homicide suspects out pre-trial on ankle monitors, according to a new report from the Chicago Tribune. The number of people out on the streets either felony weapon possession is up more than five-fold over the past four years.
What this all means is that at the same time Chicago politicians rail against law-abiding gun owners, they are releasing the people responsible for all the gun violence even after catching them! And what happens when they violate the terms of the pre-trial release or post-conviction parole — even when caught on the GPS tracking?
There is a stigma against reincarcerating anyone just like there was a stigma against releasing criminals last generation. And as we've learned the hard way, these are not "non-violent, low-level" criminals.
CWB Chicago got a hold of an email correspondence with city officials revealing that they not only conspired to reduce the jail population at all costs, but to refrain from criticizing each other when one judge would release a criminal who inevitably reoffended.
Chicago at its finest: A group of high-ranking public officials decide to change bond policies and reduce the jail population.
They also agree not to criticize each other on the issue — like, say, if the policies generate unfavorable results. pic.twitter.com/5eCOns1LDO
— CWBChicago (@CWBChicago) May 27, 2021
The "criminal justice reform" movement was never about fixing the criminal justice system. It was always about de-incarceration of the most violent criminals, which now includes murderers and gun felons. After all, possessing a gun is only considered a high-level crime when it's done by a law-abiding citizen for self-defense.At first I thought Christopher Rufo might be a new alias the Babylon Bee was using.
But no, the senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute was on Tucker Carlson recently talking about his investigation of woke-cult indoctrination at Lockheed Martin, the nation's largest defense contractor apparently making a — ahem — transition into clown college.
I never want my initial instinct to go away, though. You see, when I'm told that a consulting firm called White Men As Full Diversity Partners held a multi-day seminar for its senior white male leadership (including former military brass) to cure them of their so-called white male and heterosexual privilege, I simply need to believe at a core level deep in my soul that it is all preposterously stupid fiction.
How can this be real? How did anyone resembling the male half of the human species — let alone connected to the business of killing that is, in fact, the military — actually sit through nonsense like repeating "heterosexual privilege statements" such as "I can have friendships with or work around children without being accused of recruiting or molesting them"? How?
Because the only appropriate masculine reaction to any organization with the title White Men As Full Diversity Partners is to launch it into the sun. Yet here we are, with Rufo forced into the role of Isaiah confronting a willfully decadent and gutless people with the question of "where would you yet be struck, you impossible dumbasses?" (slight paraphrase, Deace Reformed Edition).
The cult of woke progressivism is now embedded in our culture in every sector at all the highest levels of leadership. And it is a deal breaker when it comes to the ultimate continuation of the American story. Post COVID, normal can't be returned to if the story Rufo uncovered is allowed to persist. So there simply is no choice at this point but to confront examples like it — and they are legion — with the mocking ridicule and severe prejudice they have fully earned and deserve.
To that end, needless to say, I'm happy to do my part right in my own backyard of Des Moines, Iowa. That's where woke cult fanatic Sam Eathington, Ph.D., serves as senior vice president and chief technology officer of Corteva Agriscience and its 21,000 supplicants…err…I mean employees. To some of whom he recently sent the following fatwa:
Team — In several of our recent meetings, I've noticed a disturbing pattern emerging in some of the submitted questions. These questions, while they take different forms, are linked with a common theme: the idea that equity — and our work in (Inclusion, Diversity & Equity) — is unfair and not appropriate for a science-based organization. I want to be clear: these questions and the assumptions behind them are rooted in systemic bias. We hire, promote, and advance the most talented people in our organization regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, or any other factor that may have historically been used to hinder career development. Diversity enriches and strengthens our organization and should be something to strive for, not resist. I'm happy to discuss. If you have any questions about our ID&E strategy, commitments, or mindsets in R&D — please reach out.
Go team! Where are my sulfur pompoms? In the name of science, please abandon your disturbing pattern of critical thinking and dutifully acknowledge that you are a bigot who needs to stay in your lane, lest you suffer the punishment of blasphemers and heretics. And if you'd like to single yourself out further, Dear Leader Sam would love to talk about this more with you so you can be reassigned for "mindset" re-education. For your own good, of course.
By all means, reach out! For the Kool-Aid. Drink it deep. Or else.
White Men As Full Diversity Partners would be proud of the work Sam Eathington is doing. Which is why he should be fired and driven out of Iowa as soon as possible. He is an actual danger to both science and the fundamental well-being of his fellow man. Laugh at him when you see him, and make sure he knows the utter fool he has become. Encourage him to pack his bags and stand a proud pronoun post in Portland, Oregon, if he refuses to relent in his obvious war against reality, sanity, and decency.
Tell all everywhere who peddle this debased propaganda to go to Hell, because that's exactly where it came from anyway.A 14-year-old will face murder charges and will be tried as an adult after he reportedly stabbed a 13-year-old girl 114 times in a horrific attack that took her life, NBC News reported on Thursday.
The attack was so vicious that a portion of the knife purportedly used in the attack broke off in the teen's skull and stuck in her head.
Nearly half of the wounds appeared to be defensive wounds, according to the report, and were found on the girl's hands, arms, and head as she bravely tried to fight off her attacker.
What are the details?
Authorities discovered the body of 13-year-old Tristyn Bailey — a cheerleader at Patriot Oaks Academy in St. Johns, Florida — on May 9 in a wooded area.
The 14-year-old suspect — who remains unnamed at the time of this reporting — initially faced charges of second-degree murder. He now faces first-degree murder charges and will be tried as an adult, according to state attorney R.J. Larizza.
"It brings me no pleasure to be charging a 14-year-old as an adult with first-degree murder," Larizza said during a Thursday news conference. "But I can tell you, also, the executive team and I reviewed all the facts, all the circumstances, the applicable law, and it was not a difficult decision to make that he should be charged as an adult. It's a sad decision, and a sad state of affairs."
Larizza added, "Every time that arm went back and every time that arm went down, that was premeditation."
The suspect reportedly told friends that he "intended to kill someone," Larizza said, and that DNA from Tristyn was found on the suspect's clothing.
"He didn't say who that was, but he indicated to witnesses that he was going to kill someone by taking them in the woods and stabbing them, which are certainly the facts of this case," he added.
What else?
Authorities say that the suspect posed a selfie to social media on May 9 captioned, "Hey guys has inybody [sic] seen Tristyn lately[.]"
The report noted that the suspect took the photo "while Bailey was still missing and he was only considered a witness."
A knife believed to belong to the suspect was discovered in a pond near Tristyn's body, officials reported, and noted that the "tip of that blade was 'broken off' and 'located by the medical examiner in the scalp of our victim.'"
In a statement, St. Johns County Sheriff's Office Commander Howard "Skip" Cole said, "It's difficult to hear all that. We fully support the grand jury indictment."
An attorney for the teen suspect did not immediately respond for comment on Thursday evening, the outlet reported.
In a statement, the Bailey family said that the charges were an important "part of the initial steps to bring justice for Tristyn's murder."
"As we move forward, we will seek to keep Tristyn's memory alive and the spirit of the community," the family's statement added.A vessel full of Cuban nationals trying to reach the U.S. capsized and sank off Key West, Florida, on Thursday, leaving two confirmed dead and another 10 missing, according to officials.
What are the details?
The New York Times reported that a Coast Guard cutter came upon a group of people floating in the water roughly 16 miles from the coast in the early afternoon, with no boat in sight. Eight survivors were rescued.
"There was no vessel. The people were found in the water," Petty Officer Jose Hernandez told the newspaper. "That's why we don't have any of the nationalities or anything like that."
Monroe County Sheriff Rick Ramsay confirmed later that 20 Cubans attempting to reach the U.S. were originally on board the boat.
Two Coast Guard cutters and several smaller boats continued to search for survivors and victims into the evening, authorities told the Miami Herald. The Coast Guard assured the public that they would continue to search throughout the night.
Anything else?
Just days earlier in a separate incident, a raft carrying 11 Cuban migrants overturned during a voyage across the Florida Straits on Saturday, causing them to lose "their food, water and medication," the Herald reported.
The group was able to flip the raft back upright and continue on their journey, making it about an hour north of Key West. One of the men on board had died by the time the Coast Guard came upon the vessel.
"The dangers of traveling through the Florida Straits cannot be overstated," Chief Warrant Officer Matt James, commanding officer, Station Islamorada, said in a statement following the incident. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of the man who died as a result of losing critical medicine for a reported pre-existing condition during the capsizing."Famed civil liberties attorney Alan Dershowitz won a procedural victory in court Tuesday that will allow his $300 million lawsuit against CNN to proceed to depositions.
Attorneys for CNN filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit in November but a judge in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida did not agree with their argument and said Dershowitz can proceed.
The lawsuit claims that CNN unfairly edited comments from Dershowitz about whether former President Donald Trump could have been impeached if he committed an illegal act that he believed was in the public interest.
Dershowitz says in the lawsuit that CNN repeated that clip over and over in order to make him appear as if he "had lost his mind."
Following the airing of that clip over and over again, the hosts, together with their panel guests, including CNN employees and paid commentators, exploded into a one-sided and false narrative that Professor Dershowitz believes and argued that as long as the President believes his reelection is in the public interest, that he could do anything at all – including illegal acts – and be immune from impeachment. The very notion of that was preposterous and foolish on its face, and that was the point: to falsely paint Professor Dershowitz as a constitutional scholar and intellectual who had lost his mind.
CNN's attorneys argued that the lawsuit should be dismissed based on the fair reporting privilege of the press.
Dershowitz appeared on Newsmax to explain that the fair reporting privilege didn't extend to CNN's actions exactly because the network unfairly misrepresented what he said.
"They took out the words 'lawful and illegal' in order, deliberately, to convey the impression that I thought the president could engage in illegal and unlawful conduct and still not be impeached, exactly the opposite of what I said," said Dershowitz.
In an email to Law & Crime, Dershowitz said he was looking forward to "deposing the commentators and heads of CNN and of the truth coming out."
Here's the interview with Dershowitz about the lawsuit:The suspect in the murder of a 4-year-old boy in Dallas had been previously accused of assaulting another homeowner and trying to kidnap his 2-year-old girl, but the man had refused to press charges at the time.
The disconcerting accusations were outlined in a second arrest affidavit filed against Darriynn Brown, the 18-year-old arrested and charged in the heinous murder of Cash Gernon, who was found in a pool of his own blood in the street by a jogger.
Brown is accused of entering a home in February and rifling through the closets before a homeowner grabbed a kitchen knife and forced him to leave. He then allegedly damaged the door in order to gain entry again, punched the homeowner in the forehead, and walked into the living room where the homeowner's 2-year-old granddaughter was sleeping.
The affidavit says that Brown picked up the girl and tried to make his way out the back door when the homeowner confronted him and wrenched his granddaughter away. Brown allegedly punched him in the face and fled the scene.
Astoundingly, the homeowner decided not to press charges at the time of the incident.
Investigators talked to the homeowner three days after Cash Gernon was found dead, and he decided to press charges at that time.
In addition to the charges of kidnapping and theft in the murder of Cash Gernon, Brown now faces two new charges of injury to a child, elderly individual, or disabled individual, and burglary. Police say more charges are pending the results of forensic analysis.
A figure fitting Brown's description was captured on surveillance video kidnapping the child from his crib the night before he was found dead. Brown's mother told the media that her son is completely innocent and that he was framed for the crime.
The boy was in the care of his father's girlfriend at the time of his abduction and murder. The mother of Cash said that she didn't know where her children were and that the father had left the two boys with his girlfriend without notifying her about their whereabouts.
Here's a local news report about the new charges:Video footage has been released showing the assault on a Southwest Airlines flight attendant last weekend by an unruly passenger, who left the attendant bloodied and reportedly missing two teeth.
The witness who took the video says both the passenger and the flight attendant deserve blame for the altercation.
What are the details?
The incident occurred Sunday morning after a flight from Sacramento, California, landed in San Diego.
It was first reported by a Transport Workers Union of America local president who raised it to Southwest Airlines CEO Gary Kelly in a plea for better safety for airline employees amid a significant spike in passenger incidents over the past year — the vast majority of which the FAA has attributed to non-compliance with mask policies.
A spokesperson for Southwest confirmed the altercation, saying in a statement to ABC News Tuesday that "the passenger repeatedly ignored standard inflight instructions and became verbally and physically abusive upon landing."
Witness Michelle Manner pulled out her cell phone to record after the flight attendant, who has not been named, battled back and forth verbally with a row of passengers.
Manner says the whole thing stemmed from one passenger not properly wearing their mask, and that both the flight attendant and the passenger who hit her deserve blame for escalating the situation.
"Both of them, in my opinion, were wrong and it could have totally been avoided," Manner told KFMB-TV, with whom she shared the footage. "
Manner says she was only able to capture the last part of the argument between the attendant and the passengers, and claims a verbal altercation between the parties began roughly five minutes prior when the attendant pressed a passenger sitting in a window seat to pull her mask over her nose.
According to Manner, the attendant then left to report the passenger to the captain of the aircraft before returning to the confrontation.
"The frustration from the first altercation was still brewing - in all of them - including the flight attendant, no doubt, and so it just escalated very, very fast," Manner recalled. "I heard the passenger [sitting by the aisle] say three times something to the effect of, 'Get off of me. Don't lean on me.'"
Manner went on to say, "The passenger was incorrect by hitting her, but she was also, in my opinion, provoked."
Anything else?
Fox News reported that 28-year-old passenger Vyvianna Quinonez was arrested following the incident for battery causing serious bodily injury according to the San Diego Harbor Police Department.
Southwest has permanently banned Quinonez from flying with the airline, USA Today reported.Gwen Stefani fired back at accusations that she had committed the liberal sin of cultural appropriation when she included a group of Japanese dancers in her stage act.
The pop star has faced criticism for the "Harajuko Girls," a group of dancers that were accused of using demeaning Japanese stereotypes.
In a recent interview with "Paper" magazine, Stefani refused to apologize for what she said was an act of cultural appreciation, not appropriation.
"If we didn't buy and sell and trade our cultures in, we wouldn't have so much beauty, you know?" said Stefani in the interview.
"We learn from each other, we share from each other, we grow from each other. And all these rules are just dividing us more and more," she explained. "I think that we grew up in a time where we didn't have so many rules. We didn't have to follow a narrative that was being edited for us through social media, we just had so much more freedom."
Stefani's most biting critic was comedian Margaret Cho, who compared the dancers to blackface and a racist minstrel show.
"I want to like them, and I want to think they are great, but I am not sure if I can. I mean, racial stereotypes are really cute sometimes, and I don't want to bum everyone out by pointing out the minstrel show," wrote Cho sarcastically in 2005.
"Even though to me, a Japanese schoolgirl uniform is kind of like blackface, I am just in acceptance over it, because something is better than nothing," she added.
One of the "Harajuko Girls" dancers defender Stefani from the accusations later.
"I heard about the criticism but it didn't bother me as I knew Gwen's intention," said Rino Nakasone.
"It was like an American version of how they saw Harajuku girls—I thought it was genius," she added. "A lot of musicians are using Japanese cultural elements in their videos these days; Gwen was like a trailblazer in that sense."
Stefani gained popularity as the lead singer of "No Doubt," a rock ska band from Southern California. She is the longtime girlfriend of country music star Blake Shelton, who says that Stefani was pivotal in converting him to Christianity. Their plans to wed in October 2020 were postponed by the coronavirus pandemic.
Here's more about the controversy over the Harajuku Girls:When Idaho Gov. Brad Little (R) was out of state this week, Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin (R) became acting governor in Little's absence and took the opportunity to issue an executive order banning mask mandates in the state, including those imposed by local governments.
What are the details?
Gov. Little left the state to attend the Republican Governors Association conference in Nashville, Tennessee, earlier in the week, and was due back in Idaho on Thursday evening. But before he could make it back home, the lieutenant governor decided to take full advantage of her brief elevated position of authority.
McGeachin tweeted Thursday, "Today, as acting Governor of the State of Idaho, I signed an Executive Order to protect the rights and liberties of individuals and businesses by prohibiting the state and its political subdivisions — including public schools — from imposing mask mandates in our state."
A spokesperson for Little told the Idaho Statesman, "The Lt. Gov. did not make Governor Little aware of her executive order ahead of time."
The Associated Press reported that just last week, McGeachin announced that she was running for governor herself. Little has not yet announced whether he will run for a second term, but if he does, the incumbent would face a GOP primary challenge from McGeachin.
The outlet reported that "McGeachin is on the far right of the political spectrum in the conservative state, and her order could bolster her support as a candidate for governor."
"I've been listening to people all across the state with the concern about, especially, why are little kids being forced to wear masks in school," McGeachin told the AP in an interview. "My oath to the Constitution is to protect those rights and freedoms of the individual, and I've never supported any type of a mandate on the individual, especially when it comes to health care choices."
While some localities and school districts in Idaho issued mask orders during the coronavirus pandemic, Little never issued a statewide mask mandate. Given that fact, another fellow Republican, Idaho state House Speaker Scott Bedke, accused McGeachin of issuing the order for show.
"There were no statewide mask mandates," Bedke told the Statesman. "So what you have here is a solution in search of a problem, and it's political theater."So, if you became governor for a few hours, what would you do? Idaho Lt. Gov. Janice McGeachin, a firebrand conservative opponent of unscientific COVID-19 regulations, knew exactly what she would do: Ban all mask mandates, particularly on children.
Today, she got her wish.
In perhaps one of the most extraordinary moments in state politics, McGeachin announced last week that she would be challenging Republican Gov. Brad Little in the Idaho gubernatorial primary next year. It is highly unusual for a lieutenant governor of the same party to challenge the sitting governor, but McGeachin was fed up with Little's support for heavy-handed COVID restrictions and felt that Idaho needed a conservative voice. In March, she participated in a rally burning masks and copies of the governor's executive orders.
But what was even more unusual was that Gov. Little traveled out of the state to meet with other governors this week in Nashville, Tennessee, creating an absence that, pursuant to state law, makes the sitting lieutenant governor the acting governor until he returns.
In a move that shocked everyone, including the governor's staff, McGeachin issued an executive order effective 11 a.m. Thursday barring all local governments, including school boards and county commissions, from continuing mask mandates. The order applies to local governments, health districts, public schools, public colleges and universities, and libraries and more, but exempts hospitals.
Today, as acting Governor of the State of Idaho, I signed an Executive Order to protect the rights and liberties of individuals and businesses by prohibiting the state and its political subdivisions — including public schools — from imposing mask mandates in our state. #idpol pic.twitter.com/Nmb6DX9v6X
— Janice McGeachin (@JaniceMcGeachin) May 27, 2021
"It's just especially hard for me to see the little kids being forced to wear a mask in school," McGeachin told Idaho Reports.
Marissa Morrison, Little's press secretary, said that "the Lt. Governor did not make Governor Little aware of her executive order ahead of time" and that Little "is expected to return to Idaho tonight" and review the order.
From a political standpoint, McGeachin boxed in Gov. Little. On the one hand, everyone knows Little is a big fan of masks, which is why he encouraged them all along and made sure all local officials were able to institute them, even on the youngest of children.
However, he shied away from instituting a statewide mandate because he knew it wouldn't resonate with the voters. With people in Idaho beyond "over with" the COVID-19 way of life, and with McGeachin on the ballot for the GOP nomination against him next year, Little has a very interesting choice to make.
Gov. Little has already vetoed legislation even limiting his emergency powers to as much as 60 days! He has also declined to support numerous house bills blocking vaccine passports, closure of businesses, and mask mandates. All too often, incumbents who are challenged in primaries move far to the right rhetorically after the issue is already obsolete and doesn't require them to take any action. But in this case, McGeachin has boxed him in and is forcing him to now take an affirmative stance. Will he reverse the order when he returns?
Aside from giving her a leg up with primary voters against Little, this action will likely help in cementing McGeachin's status as the main conservative opponent. At present, a number of other candidates have filed to run for governor. However, absent a clearing of the field, multiple candidates risk dividing the conservative vote and re-electing Little, as Idaho does not have a runoff law.
GOP primaries are full of candidates who talk big and deliver nothing for conservatives. In this case, Janice McGeachin might have given voters an audition of what is to come.Patrisse Cullors resigned from the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation after weeks of criticism surrounding her million dollar real estate purchases.
The 37-year-old had been at the helm of the BLMGNF for six years.
"I've created the infrastructure and the support, and the necessary bones and foundation, so that I can leave. It feels like the time is right," she said to the Associated Press.
In April, Cullors — who is a self-described Marxist — was heavily criticized after it was discovered that she had purchased a $1.4 million home in a predominantly white neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. A later report said that she had purchased four high-end homes totaling more than $3.2 million.
In her comments to the AP, Cullors characterized the criticism as coming from the right, and claimed that the decision to leave the group had nothing to do with the controversy.
"Those were right-wing attacks that tried to discredit my character, and I don't operate off of what the right thinks about me," Cullors said.
Cullors also posted a video to her YouTube account about her resignation and only obliquely referenced the controversy from her home purchase.
"I stayed in it and withstood a lot of s***," she said in the video.
The BLM foundation revealed to the AP that they had garnered $90 million in donations just in 2020.
The official Twitter account of Black Lives Matter tweeted a statement praising Cullors after she announced her resignation.
"After almost 8 years, we say see you later to the last of our founders, Patrisse Cullors, who's served BLM whole-heartedly. We reflect on the impact Patrisse had on BLM, & we are in deep gratitude," they tweeted.
Here's the video from Cullors about her resignation:A Tennessee woman was arrested this week after she allegedly plowed her vehicle through a tent at a COVID-19 vaccination site at a high rate of speed while yelling out, "No vaccine!"
What are the details?
The Blount County Sheriff's Office released a statement saying Virginia Lewis Brown, 36, of Greenback, drove her car through an enclosed tent outside the Foothills Mall in Maryville on Monday, where health department workers, deputies, and Tennessee National Guard members were working the event.
According to authorities, she "placed the lives of seven workers in danger" when she mowed through the enclosure and out the other side before driving off. Witnesses told investigators that Brown was heard yelling "No vaccine!" as she sped through the tent.
One of the deputies at the site hopped into his patrol vehicle to take chase after Brown and was able to pull her over. She reportedly told the officer that she had driven through the tent to protest coronavirus vaccines, but that she was only going 5 mph when she drove through the enclosure.
Brown was arrested and in the incident report obtained by ABC News, the deputy wrote that "while traveling to the jail, Ms. Brown made several statements about wanting to protest the vaccine. Ms. Brown stated she was driving through the course and once she got to the tent she told the personnel working she was not there for the vaccine."
The suspect was charged with seven felony counts of reckless endangerment over the incident. Tennessee attorneys told The Washington Post that each count carries punishment of up to 15 years in prison and a fine as high as $10,000.
Brown was released on $21,000 in bonds and is set to appear in court on June 7. It unclear whether she has obtained an attorney at this time.An armed school employee thwarted an attempted kidnapping of an 11-year-old girl in Ogden, Utah.
Around 2:30 p.m. Tuesday, a man tried to kidnap a student from the Lincoln Elementary School playground by grabbing her by the arm. A teacher confronted the kidnapper and was able to set the girl free.
The teacher instructed the 19 students who were outside to go inside the school. At that point, the man punched a window in an apparent attempt to force his way inside the school. The unnamed school employee grabbed his gun and pointed it at the intruder. While holding the kidnapper at bay, the teacher called 911.
Police arrived at the elementary school and arrested the suspect after a "brief struggle." The school was placed on brief lockdown after the incident.
The suspect was later identified as 41-year-old Ira Cox-Berry. He was booked into the Weber County Jail, and charged with first-degree felony child kidnapping.
The suspect "appeared to be high on narcotics," Police Lt. Brian Eynon said Wednesday.
Cox-Berry has no prior felony record, according to state court records, the Standard-Examiner reported.
Police said there didn't seem to be any connection between the suspect and the girl.
"We're trying to figure out if he even knows the girl," Eynon said. The girl's parents said they don't know Cox-Berry.
Police are still investigating the incident, according to a Wednesday statement from the Ogden police.
The good guy with a gun is a concealed carry permit holder and was in lawful possession of the firearm.
"He did everything that he should do to protect our children's lives here in the city of Ogden," Eynon said of the armed teacher. "Not once, but twice he confronted the suspect."
Many of the children were emotionally upset following the kidnapping attempt. A crisis response team was at the school Wednesday to console any students affected by the event, according to school district spokesperson Jer Bates.
"We can confirm nobody was injured and everybody is accounted for," Bates said. "This is definitely something that is concerning for parents and school employees, and most of all concerning for our students."After making headlines a week ago for saying "basketball is just not the most important thing to me right now" — the Israel-Hamas fighting was taking precedence — Brooklyn Nets star Kyrie Irving is commanding attention again after saying Tuesday he hopes there won't be any "racism" from Boston fans as his squad battles the Celtics on Friday.
The Nets lead the NBA playoff series 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday and Game 4 on Sunday in Boston.
What did Irving say?
"It's not my first time being an opponent in Boston," Irving — who played for the Celtics in 2017 and 2018 — told reporters. "I'm just looking forward to competing with my teammates, and you know, hopefully we can just keep it strictly basketball. You know, there's no belligerence or any racism going on, subtle racism, and people yelling [expletive beeped out] from the crowd."
He added, "But even if it is, it's part of the nature of the game, and [we're] just gonna focus on what we can control."
A reporter asked Irving if he had experienced any of his aforementioned issues in Boston before.
Irving replied, "I'm not the only one that could attest to this, but it's just, you know." Irving then paused and laughed before saying, "It is what it is."
Anything else?
Amid the Israel-Hamas fighting earlier this month, a somber Irving told reporters near the end of the season, "I'm not gonna to lie to you guys, a lot of stuff is going on in this world, and basketball is just not the most important thing to me right now. There's a lot of stuff going on overseas. All my people are still in bondage across the world, and there's a lot of dehumanization going on."
He added, "I apologize if I'm not gonna be focused on y'all's questions ... It's just too much going on in the world for me to just be talking about basketball. I gotta focus on this s**t 24/7 most of the time, but it's just too much going on in this world not to address ... It's sad to see this s**t going on. And it's not just in Palestine, it's not just in Israel. It's all over the world, man, and I feel it. I'm very compassionate toward all races, all cultures, and to see a lot of different people being discriminated ... against based on their religion, color of their skin, what they believe in. It's just sad."
Content warning: Language:
Kyrie Irving speaks out against the injustice in Palestine youtu.be
Oh, and as for the Celtics, the franchise is fresh off a bit of a controversy of its own when the team tweeted a photo of star player Kemba Walker wearing a jacket emblazoned with the famous "Don't Tread on Me" design from the Gadsden Flag.
Some on the left have claimed the historical symbol has taken on racist and white supremacist meanings, but Walker said after the dustup that he had no idea the image or motto meant anything in particular, saying "the colors looked good, it went with my sneakers, that's all."Progressive magazine New Republic last week published a book review titled "The White Men Who Wanted to Be Victims."
The reviewer, Chris Lehmann, heaps praise upon Joseph Darda's tome, "How White Men Won the Culture Wars: A History of Veteran America," calling it "eye-opening" and an "original and persuasive revisionist study."
Lehmann also gleefully declares that when it comes to "cancel culture, wokeness, and the like," the "loudest and most visible partisans in these battles are aggrieved white men, insisting that they're scapegoats in unhinged identity-driven witch hunts and eagerly putting themselves forward as martyrs in ugly confrontations over free speech."
The central argument is that beginning with the Vietnam War "aggrieved" white men have been playing "a discriminated-against minority" — and among the pop-culture examples is Sylvester Stallone's John Rambo character, particularly in 1985's "Rambo: First Blood Part 2" in which the "aggrieved" Vietnam veteran issues bloody payback against all of his overseas opponents.
Here's how Lehmann puts it:
Stallone's title character is dispatched back to Vietnam on a POW rescue mission and delivers his signature catchphrase in reply to the officer briefing him: "Sir, do we get to win this time?" The movie script also goes out of its way to give the character of Rambo a new ethnic identity that hadn't been referenced in the franchise's debut film or in the novel that formed the basis of the Rambo series: He's made half-Native American. As Darda notes, Rambo's manufactured Indigenous backstory gave a character played by a white actor a way to co-opt a narrative of discrimination: "The white ethnic revival had made white minorities the most American thing of all.… In the 1980s, that meant a white actor starring as a half-Indian soldier—a minoritization that, as simulated rather than embodied, allowed all white men to see themselves reflected in it."
Reaction is brutal
In the aftermath, New Republic posted a tweet Wednesday noting Lehmann's "The White Men Who Wanted to Be Victims" review — and the backlash and ratio-ing has been severe so far. As of Thursday afternoon, the tweet has attracted 964 comments compared to only 42 likes.
Here's what some of the commenters had to say to Lehmann — and in fairness likely to Darda and the New Republic:A group of eight people, including a parent, reportedly stormed into a North Carolina high school and began beating up a 14-year-old girl in the middle of class — and a witness caught the shocking attack on video.
What happened?
According to WGHP-TV, deputies with the Guilford County Sheriff's Office said the attack occurred Tuesday morning at approximately 9:45 a.m. when a group of six students, accompanied by an 18-year-old and a 37-year-old parent, entered a classroom at Southern Guilford High School and began assaulting the student.
Authorities believe that the attack stemmed from an earlier fight that happened at a bus stop on Monday. In what appears to have been a "revenge effort," one of the students assembled a group of friends with a plan to attack the girl the next day.
Video of the assault obtained by WGHP-TV shows the group surrounding the student and using their arms and legs to punch and kick her over and over again for several seconds.
Fortunately, the victim reportedly only suffered minor injuries to her face before faculty, staff, and a school resource officer intervened.
What else?
Three of the students involved in the assault are reportedly enrolled at SGHS, where the assault occurred, but the other three go to different schools in the area. One of the students' parents also joined in on the attack.
"Yes, one of the students did show up with their parent — their mother came. So, she participated not only there just for support for her student, but actually, participated in the assault as well," the school's resource officer, Captain Brian Hall, explained to WFMY-TV.
"That was a deeply disturbing part for us," he added. "You look at parents as the ones who are supposed to be giving the kid guidance as to how to handle these types of things, not encouraging it ... [and] in this case — a parent that went too far and participated with their child in clearly criminal behavior."
Anything else?
Hall said the group breached the building by having one of the SGHS students hold a door open for the group to enter through. After they entered the building, the group immediately went up to the upstairs to the classroom where the victim was located.
After the attack, the group attempted to flee the scene and made it out of the school building before being stopped in the parking lot.
No charges were filed on Tuesday, but the sheriff's office reportedly plans to file charges of misdemeanor assault and first-degree trespassing against the assailants. WGHP-TV reported that "they may also be accused of inciting a riot."Brandeis University Assistant Dean Kate Slater, who is white, lashed out at white people and told them to "shut up right now." Slater, who is a champion of anti-racism ideology and critical race theory, was skewered online for her recent remarks, including that "all white people are racist."
Slater is an assistant dean of graduate student affairs at the private Massachusetts university with a tuition of $55,340, which enrolled 6.95% Hispanic or Latino and 4.74% black or African American students as of 2019. Slater posted a defense of critical race theory, and proclaimed that questions about CRT are "often straw men for debates about whether or not systemic racism is real."
"Yes, all white people are racist in that all white people have been conditioned in a society where one's racial identity determines life experiences/outcomes and whiteness is the norm and the default," Slater wrote in a now-deleted Instagram post. "That includes me!"
"I don't hate white people — I hate whiteness," said the self-described "White anti-racist educator."
"CRT does not create oppression: It names oppression that already exists," Slater wrote.
In another Instagram post, "For all white folkx, I invite you to take a moment today and reflect on the past year — a year of 'racial reckoning.' How have you been paying attention, interrupting, and holding yourself accountable? How will you commit and recommit to racial justice, to disrupting and divesting from whiteness, and to building a more equitable world that's free of racial subjugation?"
Following the backlash, Slater has since made her Instagram profile private.
Kate Slater is the co-creator of the "Anti-Racist Roadmap," a resource "about consciousness raising, accountability, and deepening your commitment to action."
"The purpose of this roadmap is not to help you feel better as a White person – this is about the critical work we're all called to do in our movements for justice," the resource reads. "This roadmap will help you shift resources and power to Black and Brown communities and uplift the work that's already being done."
"A hallmark of White supremacy culture is individualism as opposed to collectivism; this results in White gatekeeping and skill-hoarding," the pamphlet states. "Beyond fiscal resources, the communal sharing of time and talent speaks to the principle of "lifting as we climb."
Slater is a regular contributor to NBC News. In one article titled, "How to be an anti-racist and what new steps you should take," she states, "In our society, systemic racism still creates dramatically different life experiences and outcomes for communities of color."
Slater suggests that the United States could be "beyond redemption" because of racial injustices in an article titled, "Protests call to reform, defund and abolish police — but what do they mean?"
In an interview from March, Slater said, "Once you accept that good people can be racist, and are racist, in that they have preconceptions and prejudices about people based on their race and they act according, that right there, means that you recognize the essentialness of doing anti-racist work."
"I mess up frequently, I say things that are racist," Slater said. "I say things are racially potent, I do things that cause harm. And I'm going to continue to because I am a white person living in a racist society."
An Anti-Racist Roadmap: with Kate A. Slater, author of 2021 Anti-Racist Roadmap. www.youtube.com
In a virtual speech hosted by the University of New Hampshire, Slater told white people to "shut up."
"The most important aspect of my personality identity for purposes of this conversation is that I am a white woman," she admitted. "I do want to put out the big caveat that I'm in no way shape or form an expert on the history of race and racism. I don't believe that it's possible for a white person to be an expert in race and racism. I don't think we can be an expert in something that we enact versus something that we experience."
"White people need to sit back and shut up right now," she told the audience. "Your own opinions right now as white people do not matter, quite frankly. You have not experienced racism. You represent the oppressor. So do not for one hot minute think that your voice or your journey or your story outweighs the experience of people who have actually experienced racism. Do not presume you know better. Do not presume even that you know different."A viral video of a Georgia mother's defiant rebuke of the Gwinnett County Board of Education's mask mandates was taken down by YouTube Thursday after the social media platform said it spread medical misinformation.
In a statement made to Fox News, YouTube said video of Courtney Ann Taylor's impassioned demand that Atlanta's Gwinnett County school board stop requiring her 6-year-old daughter and other children to wear masks violated the company's Community Guidelines because she said COVID-19 doesn't affect children.
The video was posted on YouTube by Tom Elliott, an editor for Grabien, who received notice Thursday that his post was taken down.
"YouTube has clear Community Guidelines in place to prevent COVID-19 medical misinformation. In accordance with our policies, we removed this video for including the claim that children are not affected by COVID-19," a spokesperson for the company told Fox News.
During her speech, Taylor said, "every one of us knows that young children are not affected by this virus."
People age 0-17 can catch and transmit COVID-19 but are more likely to experience mild or no symptoms. Fox News reported there have been about 300 deaths attributed to COVID-19 for people in that age group, a fraction of a percent of the nearly 600,000 total fatalities during the pandemic.
But YouTube's policy is to remove videos that contradict the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's guidance, which states that children can be affected by COVID-19.
"While fewer children have been sick with COVID-19 compared to adults, children can be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, can get sick from COVID-19, and can spread the virus that causes COVID-19 to others," the CDC said. "Children, like adults, who have COVID-19 but have no symptoms ('asymptomatic') can still spread the virus to others."
A video must provide additional context to refute statements that contradict what the CDC says to avoid enforcement action by YouTube's content moderators.
There are more copies of Taylor's April 23 speech on YouTube that have not yet been removed.
In her remarks, Taylor said mask mandates for children were forcing them "to carry a burden that was never yours to carry."
"We chose you to make decisions that would be in our children's best interest," Taylor told the school board. "Enforcing 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9-year-old little children to cover their noses and their mouths — where they breathe — for seven hours a day, every day for the last nine months for a virus that you know doesn't affect them! That is not in their best interest!"An upcoming book, "The Chief Witness: Escape from China's Modern-Day Concentration Camps," details one woman's "fight to survive" inside one of China's 380 unspeakably horrific concentration camps.
On "The Glenn Beck Radio Program" this week, Glenn asked why, after seeing horrors like this in history before, aren't we taking acting to stop this? Companies like Apple, Google, and Facebook not only continue to work with China, but have sometimes even given the Chinese Communist Party the tools it needs to spy on its people.
Glenn read an excerpt from the book in which co-author Sayragul Sauytbay describes the concentration camp where she was incarcerated for the "crime" of being one of the China's ethnic minorities and the shocking details of what she witnessed and experienced as a prisoner.
"I can't tell you how disgusted I am. ... It means nothing to say 'never forget' if you won't talk about the things that lead to the Holocaust. 'Never forget' doesn't mean just remember their names and remember what happened, but look at the seeds that are being planted today so we don't go down that road," Glenn said after reading the disturbing details.
"How do you make sure that that doesn't happen, if you won't talk about the seeds that are being planted? It's too late when the tree has its vines all around your neck. It's too late. Silence in the face of evil, is evil itself. Not to stand, is to stand. The world is becoming more and more deaf to evil. It is all becoming perverted. What is happening in China is evil, and I don't care if it's Disney, or Apple, or Facebook, or anybody else that is doing business in China ... you're part of the problem," he went on to say.
"We must stand together ... to stand for the Jewish people. To stand for the Chinese Uighurs. To stand against another coming Holocaust, wherever it might happen in the world. To stand against this evil of critical race theory. It is evil."
Watch the video clip below for more:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Tragedy struck in San Jose, California, Wednesday morning when a public transit employee opened fire on co-workers at a downtown rail yard killing nine people before taking his own life.
The lone suspect, 57-year-old Samuel Cassidy, an employee of the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, reportedly used multiple firearms to carry out the heinous attack and may have planted explosives at his home with the intent to harm others.
Immediately following news of the attack, Democratic media figures and politicians alike — including President Joe Biden and California Gov. Gavin Newsom — predictably called for the passage of new gun laws to curb the spate of gun violence.
However, it doesn't appear that any progressive gun control measures would have been effective in preventing the attack, at least according to Demian Bulwa, director of news at the San Francisco Chronicle.
Bulwa made the assessment in a tweet posted Thursday morning after Santa Clara County Sheriff Laurie Smith informed the public that Cassidy had used two semiautomatic handguns in the attack.
"The VTA killer carried 2 pistols and several ammo magazines that can be switched out in seconds," Bulwa tweeted.
"In other words, there may be no California law or proposed reform — assault-rifle ban, large-magazine ban, gun-show loophole — that would have prevented this," he assessed.
Nevertheless, even while admitting he was "still awaiting many of the details" about the incident, Biden re-upped his call for Congress to pass stricter gun laws.
"I have the solemn duty of yet again of ordering the flag to be lowered at half-staff, just weeks after doing so following the mass shootings at spas in and around Atlanta; in a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado; at a home in Rock Hill, South Carolina; and at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, Indiana," the president said in a statement Wednesday.
"Enough," he added. "Once again, I urge Congress to take immediate action and heed the call of the American people, including the vast majority of gun owners, to help end this epidemic of gun violence in America. Every life that is taken by a bullet pierces the soul of our nation. We can, and we must, do more."
Gov. Newsom also joined the chorus calling for more gun control.
"What the hell is going on in the United States of America?" he asked during a Wednesday press conference. "When are we going to come to grips with this? When are we going to put down our arms — literally and figuratively — our politics, stale rhetoric, finger pointing, all the hand wringing, consternation that produces nothing except more fury and frustration ... over and over and over again."Preliminary findings from a new study that has yet to be peer-reviewed raise questions about the efficacy of mask-wearing and mask mandates in slowing the spread of COVID-19.
After the onset of the pandemic, scientific experts recommended that people wear face coverings to mitigate the spread of the virus, which can spread via respiratory droplets. No fewer than 40 states followed Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance on mask-wearing and adopted statewide mandates requiring residents to wear masks in public.
Researchers at the University of Louisville sought to show that statewide mask mandates and mask use were associated with lower COVID-19 case growth rates in the United States. Instead, they were surprised to discover that while "80% of U.S. states mandated masks during the COVID-19 pandemic" and while "mandates induced greater mask compliance, [they] did not predict lower growth rates when community spread was low (minima) or high (maxima)."
The study relied on CDC data to calculate total COVID-19 case growth and mask use in the U.S.
"We estimated post mask mandate case growth in non-mandate states using median issuance dates of neighboring states with mandates," authors Damian Guerra and Daniel Guerra write.
There are important limitations to note before discussing the study's surprising findings. First, the researchers only analyzed state averages and did not assess counties or localities. Second, data collected from the University of Washington Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) COVID-19 model, which is used to estimate mask-wearing, is subject to survey bias. Third, the study considered confirmed and probable COVID-19 infections to measure spread, but did not assess factors like hospitalizations and mortality.
"Future work is necessary to elucidate better predictors of COVID-19 spread," the authors write.
Acknowledging those limitations, the study concluded that mask use did not observably slow the spread of COVID-19.
"There is inferential but not demonstrable evidence that masks reduce SARS-CoV-2 transmission," the researchers wrote, citing animal models and small case studies. They also pointed out that "masks have generally not protected against other respiratory viruses," citing several studies.
"Our findings do not support the hypothesis that SARS-CoV-2 transmission rates decrease with greater public mask use," the researchers said. "Masks may promote social cohesion as rallying symbols during a pandemic, but risk compensation can also occur."
The study noted mask-wearing comes with the following risks:
Prolonged mask use (>4 hours per day) promotes facial alkalinization and inadvertently encourages dehydration, which in turn can enhance barrier breakdown and bacterial infection risk. British clinicians have reported masks to increase headaches and sweating and decrease cognitive precision. Survey bias notwithstanding, these sequelae are associated with medical errors. By obscuring nonverbal communication, masks interfere with social learning in children. Likewise, masks can distort verbal speech and remove visual cues to the detriment of individuals with hearing loss; clear face-shields improve visual integration, but there is a corresponding loss of sound quality.
Statewide mask mandates enacted in the United States were "poor predictors of COVID-19 spread."
In summary, mask mandates and use were poor predictors of COVID-19 spread in US states. Case growth was independent of mandates at low and high rates of community spread, and mask use did not predict case growth during the Summer or Fall-Winter waves. Strengths of our study include using two mask metrics to evaluate association with COVID-19 growth rates; measuring normalized case growth in mandate and non-mandate states at comparable times to quantify the likely effect of mandates; and deconvolving the effect of mask use by examining case growth in states with variable mask use.
The CDC currently promotes face masks as "a simple barrier to help prevent your respiratory droplets from reaching others" and states "studies show that masks reduce the spray of droplets when worn over the nose and mouth."
Reached for comment, Dr. Guerra told TheBlaze he would prefer to discuss the implications of his findings after the peer review process is completed. He noted that "a number of leading epidemiologists have provided us with positive ad hoc critiques and suggestions" and that he hopes the preprint study "will stimulate productive conversation on this topic."
(h/t: Townhall)Chelsea Mitchell, a Connecticut high school track athlete, is speaking out against the state's decision to allow transgender females to compete in women's sports. Mitchell believes that colleges no longer see her as the fastest female in Connecticut.
"The CIAC allows transgender athletes to compete in girls' and women's sports. As a result, two transgender athletes began racing in girls' track in 2017. In the 2017, 2018, and 2019 seasons alone, these runners took 15 women's state track championship titles (titles held in 2016 by nine different girls) and more than 85 opportunities to participate in higher-level competitions that belonged to female track athletes," Mitchell wrote.
In this clip, Pat Gray expressed concern for the future of women's sports. Watch the clip for more from Pat. Can't watch? Download the podcast here.
Use promo code PAT to save $10 on one year of BlazeTV.
Want more from Pat Gray?
To enjoy more of Pat's biting analysis and signature wit as he restores common sense to a senseless world, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Like many cities across the U.S., Atlanta has found itself in the middle of a massive crime wave. In fact, it has gotten so bad that Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms (D) isn't even bothering to run for re-election, knowing that the crime wave could doom her chances.
The spikes in crime that urban areas are seeing came as cries to get rid of police grew louder.
One of the men running to replace her — and who voted to defund the police — got a taste of the ATL's crime problem this week when his car was stolen by a group of children in broad daylight.
What happened?
Mayor Bottoms announced in early May that she would not seek re-election in the wake of what she previously labeled the "Covid crime wave," the New York Times reported, adding that her "inability to get a handle on crime" has been a major theme for her potential replacements.
According to the Times, Atlanta crime, which was up significantly in 2020, is still spiking: "In Atlanta, crime has continued raging into 2021. In the first 18 weeks of the year, police statistics show homicides up 57 percent, rapes up 55 percent, aggravated assaults up 36 percent and auto thefts up 31 percent compared with the same period last year."
WAGA-TV reported that Atlanta City Councilman and mayoral candidate Antonio Brown — who voted to withhold tens of millions of dollars in funding for the Atlanta Police Department — became one of the city's latest crime victims at about noon Wednesday while he was visiting members in his Dixie Hills community in northwest Atlanta.
He hopped out of his white Mercedes to speak to a community leader when he noticed a group of four or five kids no older than 11 or 12 years — with one of them appearing to be as young as 6 years — walking around a store. Just a few seconds later, as Brown stood only three or four feet from the car, they jumped into his vehicle and took off, WAGA said.
The councilman and fellow community leader Ben Norman attempted to get the kids out of the car, eventually the one child who was in the driver's seat — who also fought off Brown and Norman — hit the gas and they were gone. Brown told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he held onto the car for about a block, but let go after the kid sped up.
Brown filed a report with the APD, and officers said they found the car a few hours later. Brown told WAGA that he did want to press charges.
What about Brown's campaign?
According to the Journal-Constitution, Brown launched his mayoral campaign with a platform calling for the "reimagining" of policing.
As a member of city council, he sponsored a move to consider the restricting the city's public safety agencies and create a new department focused on "wellness," the paper said.
He was also one of seven council members to support withholding $73 million from the APD's budget until the mayor's administration came up with a plan to "reinvent the culture of policing in the city."
Brown is also under indictment on multiple federal fraud charges, including lying about income on loan applications, the Journal-Constitution reported.Former President Donald Trump has told allies he will run for president again in 2024 as long as he is healthy, Politico reported Thursday.
But while Republican officials will express support for Trump in public, several lawmakers who did not wish to be named said they'd rather have another candidate without Trump's baggage be the 2024 nominee. They are mindful that Trump was impeached twice as president, is blamed by the media for inciting a riot at the Capitol on Jan. 6, and has a unique talent for causing distractions with inflammatory statements that take the party off-message.
"He's one of the best presidents we've had in terms of policies. But having said that, if it were up to me, I would never have Trump on any ballot ever again because it's such a distraction," said one House Republican who is publicly pro-Trump, Politico reported. "I would love for him to play a behind-the-scenes role and not be on the ballot."
Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) was willing to go on the record with Politico about his concerns.
"President Trump did a lot of good. But he squandered a lot of his legacy after what happened after Nov. 3. And I think that's a shame," he said. "Running for president, you're under a lot of scrutiny. And all I can say is there's a lot to talk about."
Another lawmaker, who spoke anonymously for fear of reprisal from Trump or his supporters, told Politico, "I'd like to see a fresh face. I think we have a lot of them."
One name that immediately leaps to mind as an alternative candidate is Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis. DeSantis swept the field in a poll of grassroots conservatives at the 2021 Conservative Political Action Conference in Orlando, Florida, that asked who the 2024 nominee should be if Trump is not on the ballot, earning a plurality of 43% support. The second place contender in the unscientific poll was South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem, who earned 11% support, but the poll was taken before she had a falling out with many social conservative activists over her veto of a bill barring transgender athletes from playing on women's sports teams.
Republicans like how DeSantis has managed the COVID-19 pandemic in Florida, resisting lockdown policies adopted in other states and weathering relentless attacks from the media for doing so. He champions issues that matter to Trump's supporters like regulating Big Tech companies, opposing critical race theory in schools, and securing elections.
Like Trump, DeSantis picks fights with the liberal media, but he's been more successful than the former president at winning those fights and enacting laws supported by his voter base.
Still, there are a significant number of Republicans who don't want to nominate Trump-lite when the genuine article is still available to run for president.
"I'm for Trump, period. I don't care who else is running," Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) told Politico.
"Why have a carbon copy?" Rep. Brian Mast (R-Fla.) asked. "Why would we not support the original?"
Many Republicans believe the 2024 GOP nomination is Trump's if he wants it. Other candidates who are widely speculated to be interested in running, like former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo or former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, have indicated they would back Trump if he runs again.
"I don't think there's anybody else who would be able to capture the party," said Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), who himself is rumored to have presidential ambitions.
Meanwhile, Trump keeps dropping hints about his intentions.
After news broke that the district attorney for Manhattan has convened a grand jury to possibly indict Trump over his business dealings in New York City, the former president released a statement blasting "a continuation of the greatest Witch Hunt in American history."
"This is purely political, and an affront to the almost 75 million voters who supported me in the Presidential Election, and it's being driven by highly partisan Democrat prosecutors," Trump said.
"Interesting that today a poll came out indicating I'm far in the lead for the Republican Presidential Primary and the General Election in 2024," he added.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) says that many voters are relocating to Florida and "overwhelmingly" registering as Republicans as a result of the draconian lockdown measures that took place during the COVID-19 pandemic.
During a Wednesday night town hall event on Fox News — hosted by Sean Hannity and featuring other prominent Republican governors — DeSantis also said that voters are also switching their party affiliation from Democrat to Republican after having fled from blue states.
What are the details?
DeSantis said in his town hall remarks that COVID-19-related lockdowns over the last year of the pandemic have turned many Democrats into Republicans and have bolstered the state's population.
Governors from Arizona, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Dakota, and Tennessee — also in attendance at the event — said that they were seeing an uptick in political migration.
"Florida is seeing a huge impact of migration out of the — out of these blue states," Hannity began. "Now, my only fear for all of you — and I'll let you start first, Gov. DeSantis — is that they may bring their liberal policies with them."
DeSantis responded, "So, it's interesting with Florida. Like the media at the beginning of [the pandemic] said Florida's bad. And I think it's because they want to damage [former President Donald] Trump in Florida. They want to damage me. So, they just kept saying it was bad. And even though the facts didn't say it, like literally last April, they're saying Florida is doing worse than New York. New York was like 10 times worse.
"And so," he continued, "I think what it did is the people that buy those phony narratives for these media, they probably aren't coming to Florida. But most people see through it. But the people that see through it, they think like us. And so, I think a lot of these people are coming. I think they are registering as Republicans overwhelmingly."
He added that he has also come across many people across the state who were once Democrats, "but the lockdowns turned them into Republicans."
"People say, I was a Democrat because of education, and I'm in California and they're locking my kids out of school," he explained. "I come to Florida, they're in school. People are free. People are happy."
He concluded his remarks, "I think this whole process has caused some people to reevaluate some of their prior commitments. And if you have a political party that puts the interest of teachers unions over the interest of kids being able to just access an education at all, that tells you all you need to know about the modern Democrat Party."
What else?
Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey (R) issued a similar statement to that of DeSantis.
“[Former President Ronald] Reagan said if the pilgrims landed in California they would have never discovered the rest of the country," Ducey said. "Nobody leaves California because they want to."
He continued, “The lack of opportunity is pushing them out."
Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee (R) added that people — including Democrats — are largely unsatisfied with blue states' responses to the pandemic.
“I think people across the country are looking around, unsatisfied, in many states with life in particular," Lee explained. "The health crisis is over. The emergency is over. We have fully opened up, and we're moving our state forward."
South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem (R) added that her state saw an increase in relocation as Americans became more and more disenfranchised with Democratic leaders' response to the pandemic.
“What's happened during this pandemic has allowed us to tell our story," she said. “Thousands of people are moving to our state, and when you ask them they say they want to live somewhere where the government respects them, they want to live somewhere where they can be free."
Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds (R) pointed out that her state implemented a "robust data program" by zip code in order to monitor areas across the state in which outbreaks would be more prevalent, which she said helped keep the economy open as much as possible during the pandemic
New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu (R) also said that it was easy to see that "every governor had to write their own playbook based on what [they were] seeing."USA Today is feeling the backlash after deleting what it termed "hurtful language" from an op-ed by a female high school sprinter upset that's she's been forced to race against — and has lost to — biological males who identify as female. In short, transgender females.
And what apparently was so "hurtful"?
Whatever else she may have written, Chelsea Mitchell referred to her aforementioned opponents as "male" or "males" — and USA Today later cut those references from her piece.
See, in WokeWorld, that's known as "misgendering" — and it's a no-no.
What are the details?
Townhall said Mitchell's USA Today op-ed first ran over the weekend — but by Tuesday the paper added an editor's note at the top: "This column has been updated to reflect USA TODAY's standards and style guidelines. We regret that hurtful language was used."
Alliance Defending Freedom — which is representing Mitchell and other female Connecticut track athletes in a lawsuit over having to compete against transgender females — stated that USA Today editors "without notice to Chelsea, changed the word 'male' to 'transgender' throughout her piece."
Indeed, the Internet Archive reveals that the May 23 version of Mitchell's USA Today op-ed contains 11 references to "male" and "males" — but they all were either deleted outright or replaced with the word "transgender" in the piece's present form.
Here's one example from Mitchell's original piece: "Instead, all I can think about is how all my training, everything I've done to maximize my performance, might not be enough, simply because there's a runner on the line with an enormous physical advantage: a male body."
Catch those last three words? Well, they're gone now.
The new sentence uses the word "transgender" before "runner" — and the words "a male body" have vanished: "Instead, all I can think about is how all my training, everything I've done to maximize my performance, might not be enough, simply because there's a transgender runner on the line with an enormous physical advantage."
What's been the reaction?
As you might expect, folks got angry at USA Today. Christiana Holcomb of ADF certainly gave the paper what for:
Author Abigail Shrier — who knows something about the subject (and getting deleted for her views) — weighed in as well:
And U.S. Rep. Dan Crenshaw (R-Texas) was only too happy to crack that quip:
Anything else?
The below video is one example of what Mitchell and other female athletes have been up against. It's from the 2018 Connecticut girls' 100-meter dash. Mitchell is the third runner from the left. The runners to her left and right — Terry Miller and Andraya Yearwood — are transgender females.
The results? Mitchell came in fourth. Miller and Yearwood came in first and second, respectively. In fact, Miller set a meet record that day. But had Miller and Yearwood not been allowed to race against biological females, one might conclude that Mitchell would have finished higher that fourth.California Gov. Gavin Newsom was ordered to pay a $1.35 million settlement to a Los Angeles-area church following a decision by a federal judge. The ruling in favor of a Pasadena church is a rebuke of Newsom's draconian restrictions on in-person religious worship during the coronavirus pandemic.
In the settlement, U.S. District Court Judge Jesus G. Bernal ordered Newsom to cover the legal expenses of Liberty Counsel, a Christian legal organization that filed the lawsuit on behalf of Harvest Rock Church and Harvest International Ministry against the Democratic governor of California.
Newsom is permanently prohibited from "issuing or enforcing regulations in connection with the COVID-19 State of Emergency declared on March 4, 2020 that impose any capacity or numerical restrictions on religious worship services and gatherings at places of worship," as long as COVID-19 infections of minors does not rise 100% statewide or 200% in a county with at least 10 coronavirus hospitalizations, or as long as ICU hospital bed capacity doesn't fall below 20%, or statewide daily case rates for coronavirus does not rise above 25 cases per 100,000.
"Under the settlement, California may no longer impose discriminatory restrictions upon houses of worship," Liberty Counsel said in a news release. "This is the first state-wide permanent injunction in the country against COVID restrictions on churches and places of worship. Under the agreed state-wide permanent injunction, all California churches may hold worship without discriminatory restrictions."
Liberty Counsel argued that Newsom implemented "discriminatory restrictions" against houses of worship, but was much more lenient against "similar non-religious" activities and gatherings, such as grocery stores and transportation.
"He is the worst governor in America" for religious freedom, said Mat Staver, founder of Liberty Counsel, according to the Washington Examiner. "The church stayed open [during the lockdown], and the pastor and parishioners were threatened with daily criminal charges that were up to a year in prison.
"Gov. Newsom's COVID restrictions intentionally discriminated against churches while providing preferential treatment to many secular businesses and gatherings," Staver continued. "What's important is this ruling is permanent. He cannot ever do this again."
"After nearly a yearlong battle defending our religious freedoms, our lawsuit has reached a permanent settlement in our favor," the Rev. Ché Ahn, founder of Harvest Rock Church and Harvest International Ministry, said in a statement, according to the Patch. "I am thrilled to see the complete reversal of the last discriminatory restrictions against churches in California."
"Gov. Newsom has always put the health and well-being of Californians first, resulting in the lowest positivity rates in the country and over 35 million shots in arms — more than any other state," Newsom's office said in a statement to Newsweek. "This settlement resolves this case while providing clarity and certainty to the public around the public health standards applicable to places of worship following recent rulings by the US Supreme Court."
The Harvest Rock Church initially filed a lawsuit against California in July when lockdown restrictions were implemented.
The settlement follows Supreme Court rulings against stringent pandemic lockdowns against religious freedoms.
In April, the Supreme Court ruled against Newsom's strict regulations against religious services. In the 5-4 ruling, the Supreme Court proclaimed that California's restrictions prohibiting three or more households from gathering indoors are likely unconstitutional because the same regulations do not apply to secular activities.
"California treats some comparable secular activities more favorably than at-home religious exercise, permitting hair salons, retail stores, personal care services, movie theaters, private suites at sporting events and concerts, and indoor restaurants to bring together more than three households at a time," the majority opinion declared.
In December, the high court ruled against Newsom's restrictions on indoor religious services during the coronavirus pandemic.
In November, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 against New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) for enacting stricter guidelines against places of worship than non-religious activities.A professor at the renowned Johns Hopkins School of Medicine advised Americans recently to "ignore" guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention due to the public health agency's puzzling refusal to recognize natural immunity from previous infection.
What are the details?
Dr. Marty Makary, who also serves as a professor at the Bloomberg School of Public Health, suggested during a Tuesday appearance on "The Vince Coglianese Show" that 150 million Americans, or "half the country," likely already have natural immunity to COVID-19 due to having been infected with the virus and then recovering.
Yet despite that staggering figure, Makary lamented the fact that the CDC, in concert with Biden administration officials, have neglected to recognize the reality of the situation. Instead, previously infected individuals who decline being vaccinated are routinely "demonized" by health officials who insist that virtually all Americans must be vaccinated before normal life can resume.
But "herd immunity" has already been reached, argued Makary, citing up-to-date vaccination and infection data to suggest that 80% to 85% of Americans are currently protected from the virus.
"I never thought I'd say this, but please ignore the CDC guidance," Makary stated, advising Americans to "live a normal life, unless you are unvaccinated and did not have the infection, in which case you need to be careful."
Makary called the the CDC's outright dismissal of natural immunity "one of the biggest failures of our current medical leadership" as Coglianese pointed out that the CDC amazingly offers no guidance for individuals who have recovered from COVID-19, in regard to what they can safely do.
"Natural immunity works," he argued. "We've got to start respecting individuals who choose not to get the vaccine, instead of demonizing them.
"There is more data on natural immunity than there is on vaccinated immunity, because natural immunity has been around longer," he continued, noting that both vaccination and previous infection likely provide "lifelong" immunity from the virus.
He added that reinfection is extremely "rare," and even when it does happen, the "symptoms are mild or [those individuals] are asymptomatic."
Anything else?
For months, Makary has been a consistent voice of reason, sounding the alarm on misinformation coming from progressive media as well as what he calls the "most slow, reactionary, political CDC in American history."
Earlier this year, he derided the CDC's "absurdly restrictive" guidance that permitted fully vaccinated people to mingle indoors with some other people without masks or social distancing, calling the agency "paralyzed by fear."
Then in May, Makary chastised media and health expert doomsayers for "fearmongering" even as the pandemic was waning by telling Americans that herd immunity may not be reached for a long time to come.
(H/T: Daily Caller)The "Rugrats" reboot — a 1990s Nickelodeon staple — features an openly gay main character, much to the chagrin of some viewers who say the move is "performative wokeness."
The show's reboot made its Paramount+ debut Thursday.
What are the details?
According to Newsweek, cast members said that the show's new CGI version introduces a variety of diverse changes.
One character, Betty DeVille — mother of twins Phil and Lil — is now openly gay, for example.
In 2020, voice actor Melanie Chartoff, who voices another character, admitted of the reboot, "One of the characters is now a lesbian."
Chartoff added, "Some of the characters are of different minority, ethnic minorities now. We had some before, now we're going to have more. So it's going to be a much more, I'd say, liberally intended show."
Natalie Morales, the queer actress who voices Betty, told The AV Club that she feels it's only right for her character to be out.
"Betty is a single mom with her own business who has twins and still has time to hang out with her friends and her community," Morales explained, "and I think it's just so great because examples of living your life happily and healthily as an out queer person is just such a beacon for young queer people who may not have examples of that."
She added, "Yeah, Betty is a fictional cartoon, but even cartoons were hugely influential for me as a kid and if I'd been watching 'Rugrats' and seen Betty casually talking about her ex-girlfriend, I think at least a part of me would have felt like things might be OK in the future."
Rugrats | Official Trailer | Paramount+ www.youtube.com
What has been the response?
According to Newsweek, the news received mixed responses, and cited one fan who tweeted, "In the original, I knew she was gay but closeted but now she is openly gay!"
Another added, "Making Betty gay on Rugrats is just performative wokeness and I'm so tired. It was already subversive to have a woman who was not traditionally feminine married to a more effeminate male/SAHD. Erasing this is not nearly as progressive as making a new openly gay character would be."
Another user on Twitter wrote, "I was today years old when I learned that Betty from Rugrats wasn't always gay."
Betty's husband, Howard — who took a prominent role in the original '90s show — is nowhere to be found in the new reboot.It's no secret that teachers unions are strident opponents of charter schools — despite the fact that charter schools are simply independently operated public schools.
Charters are a form of school choice that the unions fear will one day lead to education vouchers, which will allow students to receive government dollars to escape the many failing public schools that unions have so long dominated. The schools also have the freedom to create classrooms that meet students' needs and hire non-union employees.
Now a former teachers union president is explaining why he went from fighting against charter schools to advocating for them.
What did he say?
George Parker spent 30 years as a math teacher in low-performing schools in Washington, D.C., and then six years as president of the Washington Teachers' Union. A onetime opponent of charter schools, he's now a senior adviser at the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools.
In a new op-ed for the Wall Street Journal, Parker explained why he made such a dramatic transition: Despite claims by the unions that charter schools are unaccountable impediments to kids' educations, he finally realized that charters were not a threat to students but to unions.
"Too many teachers oppose them because they're bad for unions, not kids," the subtitle on Parker's article declared.
Parker began with a memory of telling a group of children that he was focused on making "sure their teachers had what they needed to do their jobs" and "to help them become the best teachers they could be.
"But I knew that wasn't always the case," he lamented, adding:
Like many union leaders, I had relentlessly negotiated contracts that protected not only teachers' rights, but their wrongs. As I drove home, I thought about the $10,000 my union had spent to keep a poorly performing teacher in the classroom—not because she deserved another chance, but because of a technicality.
After three decades as a teacher in D.C.'s lousy public schools, he said it was "natural to become an advocate for the profession."
But after a few years, he realized a problem: "Somewhere along the way I became more of a union leader than an educational leader."
It's time to do what's best for the kids, not unions
Now, with the pandemic coming to an end and millions of children across the country having been locked out of their schools for an entire year, it's time unions understand "the need to be nimble, to serve the needs of children and families where they are."
"We will fail our children and our teachers if we return to a pre-pandemic educational system," Parker wrote. "Unfortunately, many teacher unions want to limit access to quality education for underserved kids."
It's time to do what's best for the kids, not what's best for the unions, he added.
"I used to oppose charter schools, not because they were bad for kids, but because they were bad for unions," Parker said. "Some call it a binary choice: You either support teachers unions or you support charter schools. Nowadays I disagree. ... I'm still a union member. But I now work on behalf of charter schools."
More from Parker:
Charter schools are also public schools. All of them. They provide more than three million students, mostly black and Hispanic, access to a quality public education. They are innovative and student-centered. They break down barriers that have kept families of color from the educational opportunities they deserve. Another two million children would attend charter schools if there were space for them. How could I work against these kids?
All too often charter critics get caught up denigrating “the system" and forget the duty to do whatever it takes to provide all children with access to high-quality public schools, no matter their race, ethnicity or ZIP Code.
Parker closes with a warning: Charter schools are leading the way for great options for our kids, and "[I]f anyone says differently, keep in mind the messenger."Life plus 10 years now means that a brutal child murderer and rapist gets to be released at age 49. But for the victims, there are no parole boards, clemencies, "compassionate releases," or Kim Kardashians to publicize their case and bring justice for their lost souls.
Fifteen-year-old Sarah Jayne Jamison of Lynchburg, Virginia, will remain 15 years old forever. She never got to graduate from high school or college, get married, have children, and bring joy to her family. She was brutally raped and strangled to death in a premediated murder committed by Gregory Joyner, who was 16 at that time, on May 5, 1988.
But while Sarah's life was cut short, Joyner was able to survive in order to advocate for himself and for others to advocate on his behalf. Rather than getting the death penalty, he was given a life sentence plus 10 years. But in today's common core-style math in Democratic Gov. Ralph Northam's Virginia, Gregory only had to serve 32 years and is now out on parole.
Last November, Gov. Northam's new appointees to the parole board, who have been releasing violent criminals left and right, agreed to parole Joyner on April 2. He now lives in Petersburg, Virginia, under supervised parole and is on the sex offender registry.
During the 1989 investigation and trial, Joyner confessed to strangling Jamison to death and then burying her body in the woods, which police only found two weeks later. The medical examiner believed she was also raped, but due to the decomposed state of her body, they only had enough evidence to convict him on attempted rape. Hence, the 10 years tacked onto the life sentence. However, now Joyner will be able to live a normal life at 49, while Sarah had her entire life stolen from her.
Before Northam stacked the parole board with pro-criminal, anti-victim leftists, Joyner was denied parole in 2017 and 2019 due to his "extensive criminal record, history of violence, and release at the time would diminish the serious nature of his offenses."
Gregory Joyner (Image source: VDOC screenshot)
Imagine being the family of Sarah and now losing out on any closure over 30 years later. Expressing the sentiments of so many forgotten victims' families, her father, Dell Jamison, released the following statement: "When Joyner murdered Sarah it was for life. Why should he be released after only serving a part of his life? His sentence was for punishment, not rehabilitation; therefore he still has 30 or 40 years left on his sentence. His release is a big mistake. He is also a registered sex offender. If he was sentenced today, he would never get out of prison. Joyner has not expressed remorse to my knowledge. When he was photographed going to trial for the murder and rape of Sarah, he smiled and said 'get my good side.' He needs to stay in prison for the good of the community."
"Joyner has never publicly expressed remorse or sorrow for what he did to Sarah," said Commonwealth's Attorney for the city of Lynchburg, Bethany Harrison. "As a matter of fact, I read through the transcripts of his interviews with police officers from the late '80s. He said he doesn't feel remorse, or emotion or sadness like normal people. It really was quite chilling to go back and read those transcripts."
What was advertised just a few years ago as a movement to release phantom "non-violent, low-level offenders," has now turned into an obsession to release some of the worst murderers who are elderly or even middle-aged, with no regard for finality in justice for the victims' families. Northam's parole board has released a number of murderers, including cop killers. Among the 95 released by the five-person parole board last March were 35 people convicted of murder, some of them the most brutal murders in recent memory.
The trend of parole boards releasing murderers is growing throughout the country. This is why it's so important to reinstitute the death penalty and expedite its implementation for clear-cut murderers. We essentially no longer have the death penalty in this country, which gives the worst criminals time to chip away at their cases and eventually achieve some sort of clemency.
For all the debate over the death penalty in this country, we don't carry out many executions. There have been over 800,000 homicides in this country since the black-robed masters "allowed" us to continue our constitutional heritage of capital punishment for murderers, in 1976. But despite that number, just 1,500 individuals have actually been executed in 43 years.
The numbers have declined dramatically in recent years, as only about 20 have been executed per year in recent years, down from near 100 in the 1990s. Now, the executions have essentially ground to a halt outside of Texas and a few other states, with just one execution so far this year.
Even for the few who are ultimately executed, it takes so many years to carry out that it has almost no deterrent value. As Justice Stephen Breyer noted in a 1999 case, "Our Constitution was written at a time when delay between sentencing and execution could be measured in days or weeks, not decades." I'd settle for even a few months.
Yet as of 2017, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the average death row inmate spends 20 years and three months in prison before execution from the time he is sentenced to death. That is up from about six years in 1984 and just days during the time of our Founding.
Even the worst mass shooters remain alive for years, and the longer they linger, the more likely the execution will be canceled altogether. The only way to ensure that murderers are brought to justice is to give them the same outcome as their victim in the timeframe envisioned by our founders. But that would require policymakers to actually start caring about the victims again.A new wave of migrants who are not from the typical countries that flood the U.S. southern border are attempting to illegally enter the United States, according to a report from Axios. There are tens of thousands of illegal immigrants from overseas who are traveling to the southern border because they believe they can gain access to the U.S. during the current migrant crisis.
Typically, migrants encountered at the U.S. southern border are from Mexico and Central America's Northern Triangle, which includes Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. However, there has been an alarming spike in migrants from atypical countries on the other side of the world.
There were 33,877 migrants from countries other than Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador encountered by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection in April. The number of migrants who are not from the usual countries is exploding during the border crisis. There were 25,126 in March and 11,911 in February. April 2021's total is triple what it was in 2019 (11,665) and there were only 1,310 CBP encounters in April 2020, according to Department of Homeland Security data.
U.S. immigration agents have encountered people from over 160 countries, the New York Times reported earlier this month.
"More than 12,500 Ecuadoreans were encountered in March, up from 3,568 in January," the outlet stated. "Nearly 4,000 Brazilians and more than 3,500 Venezuelans were intercepted, up from just 300 and 284, respectively, in January. The numbers in coming months are expected to be higher."
"From India and elsewhere in Asia, they embark on Phileas Fogg journeys," the Times said. "Some reported taking buses in their hometowns to a big city, like Mumbai, where they boarded planes to Dubai and then connected through Moscow, Paris and Madrid, finally flying to Mexico City. From there, they embarked on the two-day bus ride to reach the Mexico-U.S. border."
There were over 2,217 Romanians apprehended by CBP at the southern border since the start of the fiscal year 2021, which began in October 2020. There were only 266 Romanians caught at the border in fiscal 2020 and 289 in fiscal 2019, according to CBP data.
A Reuters photographer claimed to have witnessed nearly 200 Romanians crossing at different points along the Texas border over a three-week period this year.
Many of the overseas migrants at the U.S. border are Romani, a traditionally nomadic people who originated from northern India and are now Europe's largest ethnic minority, but "have a long history of social exclusion and discrimination" and are attempting to seek asylum in the United States.
Four people whose names were on the FBI's Terrorist Screening Database have been arrested attempting to enter the U.S. from Mexico since Oct. 1 of last year. Three of the suspects were Yemen nationals and another was Serbian.
Border Patrol agents encountered 178,622 migrants in April attempting to enter the U.S. illegally at the southern border. Border apprehensions during April were the highest in over 20 years, since March 2000 when there were 220,063 illegal aliens during Bill Clinton's presidency.A Michigan public high school principal is getting called out by a legal firm after telling one of the valedictorians that mentioning her Christian faith in her graduation speech is "not appropriate."
What are the details?
According to First Liberty, one section of the speech Elizabeth Turner prepared for Hillsdale High School's graduation ceremony next Thursday noted that "for me, my future hope is found in my relationship with Christ. By trusting in him and choosing to live a life dedicated to bringing his kingdom glory, I can be confident that I am living a life with purpose and meaning. My identity is found by what God says and who I want to become is laid out in scripture."
The legal firm said the school's principal, Amy Goldsmith, reacted by highlighting that paragraph, along with a second, and telling Turner that "you are representing the school in the speech, not using the podium as your public forum. We need to be mindful about the inclusion of religious aspects. These are your strong beliefs, but they are not appropriate for a speech in a school public setting. I know this will frustrate you, but we have to be mindful of it."
Image source: First Liberty
What happened next?
Apparently Turner got in touch with First Liberty, because the law firm said it sent a letter to Goldsmith informing her that she's "violating federal law, which permits private religious speech at school events, and demanding that she allow Elizabeth to reference her faith."
First Liberty also said that student graduation speeches constitute private speech, not government speech, and private speech is not subject to the Establishment Clause. The law firm added that Turner's statements "do not transform into government speech simply because they are delivered in a public setting or to a public audience."
The letter concludes by requesting that Goldsmith "allow Elizabeth Turner to express her private religious beliefs at the graduation ceremony on June 6, 2021. Please confirm that you agree to our request by Friday, May 28, 2021 at 5PM."
Anything else?
According to another document from First Liberty, Turner emailed Goldsmith regarding her requested changes and said "unfortunately I don't think I would be able to deliver a genuine speech under those circumstances. I don't agree that we should avoid the topic of tragedy and death because that is part of everyone's future. I understand what you are saying, but for me, this is a time for my peers and I to elevate our lives and to choose how we want to live since we're not promised tomorrow, and I don't want to write a speech that won't be meaningful just to check off the box. I believe it is celebratory to call people to a life of purpose and meaning and a call to action to live a life well. For me, my personal future relies on my faith, and I also want the freedom to be able to address that in my speech if the opportunity arises."
Fox News reported that Goldsmith did not respond to multiple requests for comment.Lockheed Martin, the nation's largest and most prominent defense contractor, reportedly had white male executives undergo a diversity training program last year intended to help them atone for their "white male privilege," according to filmmaker and journalist Christopher Rufo.
During the three-day program, the group of 13 senior Lockheed executives participated in a series of exercises aimed at deconstructing their "privilege" by awakening them to the harmful impact they have on women and minority individuals by virtue of their ethnicity and gender.
The program, conducted by a diversity-consulting firm known as White Men As Full Diversity Partners (WMFDP), began with a "free association" exercise during which the participants were encouraged to list connotations often associated with white men.
During that exercise, the executives listed several negative terms such as "old," "racist," "privileged," "anti-women," "angry," "Aryan Nation," "KKK," "founding fathers," "guns," "guilty," "conservative," and "good old boys network" in addition to a handful of positive terms like "fathers," "educated" and "hard working," documents obtained by Rufo show.
According to the participants, these overwhelmingly negative perceptions about white men lead to assumptions that they "are the problem," "are arrogant," "can't lead diversity," and "don't want to give away ... or lose power."
In his report, Rufo noted that a set of related resources used by WMFDP shows the firm espouses a troubling view of privilege. The firm's training programs reportedly assess that the "roots of white male culture" consists of traits — such as "rugged individualism," "a can-do attitude," "hard work," "operating from principles," and "striving toward success" — which may seem positive but are actually "devastating" to women and minorities.
In subsequent sessions of the Lockheed training, participants were encouraged to acknowledge their privilege in a series of statements, which included "My culture teaches me to minimize the perspectives and powers of people of other races"; "I can commit acts of terrorism, violence or crime and not have it attributed to my race"; "My earning potential is 15%-33% higher than a woman's"; and "My reproductive organs are not seen as the property of other men, the government, and/or even strangers because of my gender."
Finally, participants were asked to read a series of "I'm Tired" statements meant to convey their "devastating" impact on others. The statements included "I'm tired of you making more money than me"; "I'm tired of people disparaging our campaigns (like Black Lives Matter)"; "I am tired of people who assume I'm taking a white person's job, and that I should go back to Mexico"; and "I'm tired of seeing you get offered opportunities that I don't get offered."
Rufo noted that WMFDP has conducted other controversial diversity training programs in the past, such as with Sandia National Laboratories, a company that designs America's nuclear weapons.
During former President Donald Trump's term, he issued an executive order banning racial stereotyping, scapegoating, and discrimination in federal diversity programs. But that order was rescinded on President Joe Biden's first day in office.Crowder believes that from Hollywood to COVID-19 to Joe Biden, China has been getting its hands on every aspect of American culture. Today, he reveals how and why that's a problem. Also, Crowder cover why he thinks Biden's nominee to lead the ATF is a complete imbecile when it comes to guns. With special guest Rudy Giuliani.
Watch here.
Want more from Steven Crowder?
To enjoy more of Steven's uncensored late-night comedy that's actually funny, join Mug Club — the only place for all of Crowder uncensored and on demand.Children as young as 13 years old are reportedly using fake IDs to sell explicit content on OnlyFans, allegedly "tricking" the adults-only site's age verification system.
The BBC reported that OnlyFans requires all applicants to "pose next to an ID card and then submit a photograph holding it up to their face." The age verification system in place, however, "failed to distinguished between [fakes] at any stage of the process."
What are the details?
According to the report, law enforcement officials and child protective services agents received reports of children as young as 13 saying that they were able to use the site to share explicit content of themselves.
The news agency found that children under the age of 18 were able to set up accounts using fake IDs or identification cards belonging to family members.
According to the Daily Mail, a 14-year-old girl was able to set up an account using her grandmother's passport and bank details, and a 17-year-old was able to sell videos of herself performing sex acts and using sex toys by using faked credentials.
"The teenager used a fake ID to set up her account and in one week received £5,000 [approximately $7,100] in payments from the site, prompting the bank to freeze her account," the Daily Mail reported. "There have also been reports of underage girls participating in videos on adult accounts in the U.S. which is against the company's terms and conditions."
The outlet also reported that children as young as 12 years old were "using the site to contact ... adult content creators and asking to meet up."
One child told the U.K.'s Childline, "I don't wanna talk about the types of pictures I post on there, and I know it's not appropriate for kids my age to be doing this, but it's an easy way to make money. Some of the girls have thousands of followers on Instagram and they must be raking it in — I wanna be just like them."
The BBC reported, "Schools have shared anonymous reports of pupils using the site, including a 16-year-old who boasted to her careers adviser about the amount of money she made on the site, and showed off her 'exuberant' spending on Instagram."
"Underage creators and users of the site include victims of prior sexual abuse and those with mental health issues and suicidal thoughts, according to Childline counsellor notes," the report said.
Chief Constable Simon Bailey — the U.K.'s national lead for child protection policing — said that it is "increasingly clear" that children are using the site.
"The company is not doing enough to put in place the safeguards that prevent children exploiting the opportunity to generate money, but also for children to be exploited," Bailey insisted.
Missing children linked to OnlyFans
The BBC also reports that missing kids are "increasingly being linked to OnlyFans videos," according to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
"In 2019 there were around a dozen children known to be missing being linked with content on OnlyFans," NCMEC Vice President Staca Shehan told the outlet. "Last year the number of those cases nearly tripled."
The news organization added, "While much of the content on OnlyFans featuring children involves teenagers uploading their own content, NCMEC says it is also finding evidence of child sexual exploitation and trafficking."
OnlyFans speaks out
In a statement on the investigation, a spokesperson for OnlyFans said, "OnlyFans is a subscription based social media platform for all content creators with over 120 million users. As it is paid social media, users have to be over the age of 18 to access the site. We have a team that manually reviews every application."
A spokesperson added:
For creators, we have a team that manually reviews every application. Third-party vendors are used to verify the authenticity and integrity of the IDs and selfies uploaded. The results generated by the software are reviewed along with a manual check of the applicant's provided ID, selfie with ID photo, API verified home address, linked social media accounts, linked email addresses, GeoIP locations, and the information added by the applicant in their avatar, header and bio. If our multiple point system is satisfied, the team will onboard the creator. OnlyFans hosts over 1.25 million creators from a wide range of countries and creative genres. It is an inclusive and non-discriminatory platform that is home to fitness experts, chefs, celebrities, influencers and content creators from many other walks of life. Some creators choose to upload and exchange adult content with their fans. In fact, the platform has been commended in the media for empowering and giving control back to creators so that they can be paid for content that they make and decide to share. We take our duty of care extremely seriously. OnlyFans is committed to the safety and security of its users, and its Terms of Service being upheld. In the case of any serious contravention of these terms, the account is closed, and all active subscriptions are refunded to the original payee. We have a dedicated team within our compliance area that work globally with law enforcement in the event that reporting and escalation are required. We use systems and software that are not only compliant but go over and above current regulations. The platform's safety and security team has grown commensurately with the growth of OnlyFans and we are committed to continuing that investment. Cases in which individuals have willfully tried to breach the system are rare, but we closely monitor any attempts to fraudulently access the platform and flag these cases to our safety team, and to the police and social services if necessary.A lonely woman says that her husband of more than five years refuses to take off his mask — ever ... even during sex — though the two are monogamous and are both fully vaccinated.
The woman, who refers to herself as "Maskless and Alone," wrote into Slate's "Dear Prudence" and detailed her husband's extreme fear and paranoia surrounding surrendering his mask.
Earlier this month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that it was safe for fully vaccinated Americans to ditch the masks even while in the majority of public settings.
'He wears it to sleep,' for 'bathroom activities,' and 'even during lovemaking'
Maskless and Alone wrote, "I have been married to a great guy for five and a half years. He is handsome, sexy, funny, and kind. It's true that he has always been a little 'prissy' about illnesses, but I never thought it was a real problem."
The woman said that during the pandemic, her husband's fears hit a fevered pitch and since COVID-19's emergence in the U.S., he has flat-out refused to take off his face mask — even when the two are home alone.
"He wears it to sleep, to do most of his bathroom activities, and, yes, even during lovemaking," she complained. "To eat, he pulls it up to expose his mouth, and then quickly pulls it back down between bites. While he does not insist that I do the same, I can tell it bothers him that I don't — especially because I have now started going maskless outside, per the CDC guidelines, and plan on restaurant dining inside soon for a girls' night out."
The woman says that she's attempted to reason with her husband, but he balks every time, saying, "Scientists don't fully understand the virus yet," and more, "What's the harm?"
According to the woman, there's a whole lot of harm being done.
"I want to see my beautiful husband's face again," she wrote. "I want to kiss him on the lips romantically, like we used to, and not through a piece of fabric."
The woman said that her husband doesn't often change his mask and it has become "smelly and soiled."
"This is making me depressed and concerned about our future together," she admitted. "I have asked him when he plans to stop masking, and all he says is 'When it is safe for everyone.' What if this becomes a permanent part of him? My mother, who is very conservative, thinks that I should move out. But I don't think I'm ready for that step yet. What I want is my husband back."
'Certainly not offering him any real protection against disease'
In a lengthy response, Slate's own Dear Prudence pointed out what appears to be the man's deteriorating mental condition and called his behavior "alarming."
"'What's the harm?' is such an insidious phrase," Prudence wrote. "It's not a question; it's a statement of 'leave me alone.' But there is lots of harm in leaving him alone — harm to his mental health, to yours, and to your relationship."
Prudence recommended that the two sit down and have a heart-to-heart talk over his decision to continue wearing masks nearly 100% of the time.
"Tell him all about the harm here: His behavior is alienating you and is certainly not offering him any real protection against disease," Prudence advised. "Give him three options. First, he can make an appointment with his physician to talk about effective protective measures. If he does this, he has to commit to following the doctor's recommendations, and you have to be present so he can't lie to you about what happens there. Hopefully, his doctor will say he has to do option No. 2: start seeing a therapist. If he chooses this, he has to commit to at least six sessions (or some other number that feels right to you)."
Prudence said that the third option is considering leaving him.
"Finally, he can decide — because it would be his decision if he doesn't take another action — to call an end to the relationship," Prudence advised. "I know you want your husband back, but he isn't that husband right now, and he needs to understand just how serious this is. To be clear, you have to mean it when you say that the relationship has to end if he doesn't make progress, but I think that would be the right move."
Anything else to know?
In June, a study from Harvard University found that people engaging in sexual relations ought to consider wearing face masks for the purpose of preventing COVID-19 transmission.
According to the study, the riskiest sexual scenario at the time was sex with people other than those with whom a person is quarantined.
Other high-risk behaviors, the report found, included having sex with someone outside your household, and even sometimes sex with someone inside your household, depending on who they may have previously interfaced.
The best option, according to researchers, was abstinence since it was the lowest risk for infection.
The study's authors wrote: "SARS-CoV-2 is present in respiratory secretions and spreads through aerosolized particles. It may remain stable on surfaces for days. On the basis of this information, all types of in-person sexual activity probably carry risk for SARS-CoV-2 transmission. Infected individuals have the potential to spread respiratory secretions onto their skin and personal objects, from which the virus can be transmitted to a sexual partner. Because many SARS-CoV-2–infected people are asymptomatic, HCPs are left with little to offer beyond guidance to not engage in any in-person sexual activity."Facebook has decided that its users may now suggest that COVID-19 was man-made without getting their posts banned, in a reversal from previous policy as the theory that the virus was cooked up in a Wuhan lab gains traction.
What are the details?
The social media giant told Politico Wednesday that it would no longer take down posts claiming the coronavirus was manufactured, in what the outlet reported was "a move that acknowledges the renewed debate about the virus' origins."
The outlet reported:
Facebook announced in February it had expanded the list of misleading health claims that it would remove from its platforms to include those asserting that "COVID-19 is man-made or manufactured." The tech giant has updated its policies against false and misleading coronavirus information, including its running list of debunked claims, over the course of the pandemic in consultation with global health officials.
The move draws further scrutiny over whether "fact-checking" and post regulation from the social media giant has been political in nature, as Facebook has infamously flagged and even punished users for questioning COVID-19-related policies and rhetoric.
Former President Donald Trump and others have long suggested COVID was leaked from China's Wuhan Institute of Virology, an idea that was dismissed by several in mainstream media for months as a conspiracy theory.
A New York Times COVID reporter even tweeted Wednesday, "Someday we will stop talking about the lab leak theory and maybe even admit its racist roots. But alas, that day is not yet here."
But after The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that multiple workers at the Wuhan lab fell sick with symptoms related to COVID-19 in November of 2019, the mainstream media and others resistant to the lab-leak idea started changing their tunes.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, who previously dismissed theories that the virus came from the lab in Wuhan, did a complete reversal — calling for an investigation into the origins of COVID and admitting he is "not convinced" that the disease emerged naturally, as he has long maintained.
Following reports that President Joe Biden's administration shut down a State Department probe launched by the Trump administration aimed at finding out the source of COVID-19, Biden issued a statement calling on the intelligence community to "redouble their efforts to collect and analyze information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion" between two theories: "whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident."Eric Carle, author and artist of "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" and more than 70 other children's books, passed away this week at the age of 91.
What are the details?
NPR reported that Carle's family said in a statement that the author "passed away peacefully surrounded by family members on May 23, 2021 at his summer studio in Northampton, Massachusetts."
The outlet noted that Carle was nearly 40 years old before he began his famous life's work of illustration and writing, and he was inspired by his childhood memories walking through nature with his father.
Carle was born in New York, but returned to Germany with his immigrant parents prior to World War II.
During that time, NPR reported:
Carle was beaten by teachers and shot at by soldiers, and his beloved father disappeared into a Russian prisoner-of-war camp for years after being drafted to fight for the Nazis. The man who wrote The Very Hungry Caterpillar experienced hunger firsthand.
Upon Carle's return to the U.S. at the age of 23, he began working for The New York Times.
The New York Times reported that "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" has "sold more than 55 million copies around the world since it was first published in 1969, its mere 224 words translated into more than 70 languages."
"I didn't think it was going to be an extraordinary book," Carle told Entertainment Weekly in 1994, as the book turned 25. "But children love it. Caterpillar reassures young kids that 'you scrawny, ugly little thing will grow up and fly and display your talent and beauty."'
Other famous books of Carle's include "Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?" and "The Very Busy Spider."Police have arrested a 25-year-old woman for allegedly beating a woman in front of her child at a pizza shop in Augusta, Georgia. Video of the bloody altercation went viral with millions of views on social media.
The Richmond County Sheriff's Office said that Brittany Breann Kennedy was arrested on Tuesday and charged with aggravated assault, kidnapping, and second-degree criminal damage to property.
The video shows 22-year-old Emily Broadwater at the Little Caesars pizza shop being beaten badly while her daughter tries to help her. The video continues to capture the attacker dragging Broadwater by her hair and stomping on the victim's head twice.
Initially the motivation for the attack was unknown, but some details in the case have surfaced since May 17, the day of the altercation.
The Daily Mail reported that Broadwater claimed in a post on Facebook that Kennedy had targeted her after she spent time with Kennedy's husband while Kennedy was in jail for a separate offense.
"All I did was help a friend out with his kids while his baby mama was locked up. She has been harassing me for weeks now," Broadwater said in the post.
"All I'm saying is that I never caused any harm to her or her property or her children like she had mine. Now imma go back to living my life and taking care of my daughter," she added, according to the Daily Mail.
Broadwater told police that she had had issues with Kennedy for a long time prior to the assault and that she was a suspect in another incident where Broadwater was the victim.
Police said they made her arrest a priority after the video went viral.
Here's a local news video about the bloody altercation:Juan Williams announced on Wednesday that he was leaving "The Five" after nearly seven years as a daily host on the popular Fox News evening talk show.
"It's time for One More Thing, and I have an announcement," said Williams during the final segment of the show.
"This is my last day hosting The Five. COVID taught me a lot of lessons. As the show goes back to the New York studio I'll be staying in D.C. I'll be working for Fox out of Washington, my work as a Fox News political analyst will continue," he explained.
"You know, it's been going on seven years since I've been a daily host of this show. The show's popularity has grown every single year," he added.
"So thank you, thank you so much," Williams concluded, "to you, the viewers, thank you!"
Williams was included in the list of revolving hosts of the show when it premiered in 2011 and became a regular co-host later. He was often the show's lone liberal voice. When the show premiered Williams was joined by veteran Democratic strategist Bob Beckel, who has since left the show.
Former Bush administration press secretary Dana Perino and Greg Gutfeld are the only two regular hosts to have stayed on the show since its inception.
A spokesperson for Fox News said that there would be a revolving series of liberal hosts to take Williams' place until a permanent host can be found. The network also said that Williams had requested the arrangement and they agreed to it.
"We accommodated his request, understanding and appreciating his desire to remain closer to his family, recognizing that a remote co-hosting role on a roundtable in-studio program was not a long-term option," said Fox News executive Megan Albano.
"While we will miss his insightful contributions each night and look forward to welcoming him on set whenever he's in New York, we are pleased to have him continue his longtime role as a senior political analyst with Fox News Media," she added.
After his announcement, the show played a series of clips of Williams from his time there.
Here's the video of Williams' announcement:The Left is gearing up to label anyone and everyone who doesn't bend the knee to their radical ideas as a threat to the nation, and they're using the January 6th Capitol riot to do so. That's when "innocent until proven conservative" started, and the Democrats' new 9/11-style January 6th Commission will solidify it.
Since the Capitol riot, the Biden administration has shown little transparency while arresting and intimidating hundreds and insisting that "right-wing terror" is on the rise. But is there ANY evidence to back up what the government is now doing to its own citizens?
On this week's Glenn TV special, Glenn Beck asks the questions that the corporate media won't and lays out why this may only be the beginning as private companies prepare to help the government spy on YOU. And Sen. Rand Paul joins to detail how Republicans in Congress are standing against the Democrats' new Jan. 6th Commission.
Watch the full episode below:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Climate change activists will sit on the board of oil industry giant ExxonMobil in a historic first, after a hedge fund's successful campaign to push the energy firm toward renewables.
What are the details?
The New York Times reported that Exxon shareholders voted Wednesday to elect "at least two board candidates nominated by activist investors who pledged to steer the company toward cleaner energy and away from oil and gas."
A hedge fund dubbed Engine No. 1 put forward a slate of independent board candidates, and was successful in its campaign to switch out board members. CNBC reported that Engine No. 1 "has a 0.02% stake in Exxon," and "has been targeting the company since December over the oil giant's need to shift away from fossil fuel dependency."
The Hill reported that "the activist hedge fund, which has a minor stake in Exxon at just $50 million, was formed last year with the goal of shifting Exxon's approach to climate change." Exxon has a market value of roughly $250 billion.
But Engine No. 1 was able to gain the support of Exxon's top shareholders in its climate change initiative, winning "the backing of the three biggest U.S. pension funds, the two biggest advisory services, and at least one of the three biggest fund managers," The Washington Post reported.
The outlet noted that those three fund managers are BlackRock, Vanguard, and State Street, who altogether "hold more than 20 percent of ExxonMobile's shares."
Exxon announced in a press release that preliminary vote estimates indicate that shareholders elected Engine No. 1 nominees Gregory Goff and Kaisa Hietala to the board. According to Axios, "Hietala is a a former renewables executive with the refining company Neste and Goff is the former CEO of the refiner Andeavor."
"We welcome all of our new directors and look forward to working with them constructively and collectively on behalf of all shareholders," Exxon chairman and CEO Darren Woods said in a statement.
"We've been actively engaging with shareholders and received positive feedback and support, particularly for our announcements relating to low-carbon solutions and progress in efforts to reduce costs and improve earnings," he continued. "We heard from shareholders today about their desire to further these efforts, and we are well positioned to respond."A New York Times writer covering the COVID-19 pandemic deleted a tweet claiming that that the "lab leak theory" is racist after receiving online blowback.
Apoorva Mandavilli, the Times science and global health reporter, issued the missive on Wednesday.
"Someday we will stop talking about the lab leak theory and maybe even admit its racist roots," she wrote. "But alas, that day is not yet here."
The possibility that the coronavirus was a creation in a laboratory has been theorized by many including former President Donald Trump and has gained popularity as more and more evidence is revealed publicly. Many on the left have dismissed those discussing the lab leak theory as conspiracy theorists.
Critics pounced on Mandavilli's tweet as the latest incident proving bias at the Times.
"Nyt covid-19 reporter instills perfect confidence in the paper's ability to actually report the issue," replied commentator Becket Adams.
'I think my favorite thing about dismissing the lab theory as 'racist' is that it asks us instead to believe the virus started in a filthy chinese wet market filled with bats and pangolin stomaches or whatever," he added.
"Can someone explain to me why it's racist to wonder if a virus escaped from a Chinese lab, but it's not racist to insist that it infected humans because of Chinese wet markets? If anything, isn't the latter more racist?" asked Glenn Greenwald.
Mandavilli deleted the tweet but appeared to defend her position to a critic.
"A theory can have racist roots and still gather reasonable supporters along the way," she said in a tweet documented at Fox News. "Doesn't make the roots any less racist or the theory any more convincing, though."
Hours later, she offered a much different take on the issue.
"I deleted my earlier tweets about the origins of the pandemic because they were badly phrased," said Mandavilli.
"The origin of the pandemic is an important line of reporting that my colleagues are covering aggressively," she added.
A report released by House Republicans claimed that there was significant circumstantial evidence that the pandemic might have originated from a laboratory in Wuhan, China. On Wednesday, President Joe Biden said he had ordered the intelligence community to redouble their efforts to discover the true origin of the coronavirus pandemic.
Mandavilli had previously reported that experts believed that total herd immunity was not a reachable goal and that the U.S. would need to face regular outbreaks of the coronavirus. MSNBC's Rachel Maddow called the report "crushing," and "scary."
Here's Mandavilli on MSNBC:Nine people including the suspected gunman are dead after a transit worker opened fire on colleagues at a rail yard in San Jose, California, on Wednesday.
Authorities say the lone suspect, Samuel Cassidy, took his own life at the scene.
What are the details?
NBC News reported that calls of shots fired began around 6:30 a.m. at Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authorities facility, and law enforcement rushed to respond.
"When the shots were still being fired, our teams, with San Jose PD, are entering the building while shots were still going off," Santa Clara County Sheriff Laurie Smith told reporters. "We attempted rescues. We have some very brave officers and deputies."
Sources told ABC News that Cassidy, a VTA employee, had multiple weapons with him in the massacre, and is believed to have taken his own life after murdering eight people. Multiple VTA employees were among the victims, and one survivor is in critical condition.
The Washington Post reported that according to one official, Cassidy "apparently set his home on fire before going to the rail-yard facility and opening fire."
Deputy Russell Davis told reporters that a sheriff's office bomb squad remained at the VTA facility hours after the murders, explaining, "We received information that there are explosive devices that are located inside the building. We're trying to clear out every room, every crevice of that building."
"We're so sorry this event happened," VTA Board of Directors chairperson Glenn Hendricks said during a press conference. "We will do everything we can to help people get through this."
"It's just very difficult for everyone to be able to try to wrap their heads around and understand what has happened," he said, before praising VTA employees.
"These folks were heroes during COVID-19, the buses never stopped running, VTA didn't stop running," Hendricks added. "They just kept at work, and now we're really calling on them to be heroes a second time to survive such a terrible, terrible tragedy."
Karine Jean-Pierre, White House principal deputy press secretary, said during a briefing that the Biden administration "is monitoring the situation, and our hearts go out to the victims and their families."
"We still don't have all the details," Jean-Pierre said, "but what is clear, as the president has said, is that we are suffering from an epidemic of gun violence in this country, both in mass shootings and in the lives that are being taken in daily gun violence that doesn't make national headlines."A California state lawmaker was mocked mercilessly online after he posted a photograph of discarded packaging from a gun that turned out to be a toy airsoft gun.
California state Assemblyman David Chiu (D-San Francisco) said he was on his evening walk when he encountered the blister packaging of a Glock brand gun. Chiu, a leading gun control proponent, immediately tried to tie the discovery to the preponderance of guns on the streets in his home state.
"Finding the discarded packaging of a semi-automatic on a leisurely weekend walk was disturbing, particularly during this month's surge of gun violence in San Francisco," Chiu tweeted.
Chiu didn't stop to look closely at the packaging, which clearly identified the toy as an airsoft gun, not a real firearm. Many on social media pounced at the opportunity to mock and ridicule the gun control advocate.
Chiu deleted the tweet and defended his confused alarm in a second tweet.
"I deleted an earlier tweet that misidentified a Glock 19 air pistol," he tweeted.
"While not a semi-automatic, it's still disturbing to see remnants of a weapon that can cause injury, especially in an area where young kids play and while we are dealing with a surge of gun violence in SF," he added.
Chiu's explanation did not fare well with his critics who continued to ridicule him.
"Why did you delete this one @DavidChiu? It's not like one of the most outspoken gun control activists in California's legislature should know the difference between a toy gun and a real gun," replied the Latino Rifle Organization account.
Chiu is a proponent of micro-stamping on bullets in order to help law enforcement track a gun's make, model and serial number when used to commit crimes. Second Amendment advocates point to studies that show the policy is ineffective and interferes with the constitutional right to bear arms.
Here's Chiu pressing for more gun control in 2018:Members of the group of uber-leftist, progressive U.S. House Democratic lawmakers affectionately known as "The Squad" by their liberal enablers in the U.S. media have really outdone themselves lately. They have gone all-in in making themselves the anti-Israel attack brigade as acts of violence against Jews are on the rise in America during what was nearly two weeks of rocket attacks between Hamas terrorists and Israel.
And now some of these congresswomen's fellow Democrats in the House are calling them out and accusing them of making statements that are "antisemitic at their core" and contributing to the "climate" of hate against Jews, CNN reported Wednesday.
What happened?
With antisemitic verbal and physical attacks spiking around the world and in the U.S. — from Vienna and London to Los Angeles and New York City to the offices of CNN — the ongoing smears and rhetoric against Israel coming from Democratic members of the Squad and ringing through the halls of Congress have done nothing but increase tensions in the country.
Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) labeled Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu an "ethno-nationalist" on the House floor and took to Twitter to accuse Israel of war crimes and "acts of terorism."
Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) declared that Palestinian "babies, children and their parents" were "being massacred" by Israel.
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) famously described Israel as an "apartheid state."
Rep. Cori Bush (D-Mo.) accused Israel of ongoing "ethnic cleansing" and demanded the U.S. government "stop funding the apartheid status quo."
Four House Democrats — Reps. Josh Gottheimer (N.J.), Elaine Luria (Va.), Kathy Manning (N.C.), and Dean Phillips (Minn.) — have had enough of the Squad's antics.
In a letter to President Joe Biden urging his administration to prioritize combatting antisemitism in the U.S., the four Democrats called out the anti-Israel, anti-Jew rhetoric they've been hearing among fellow lawmakers.
After first alluding to recent Holocaust-related comments made by Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (Ga.), the quartet lit into the Squad — though without naming them:
We also reject comments from Members of Congress accusing Israel of being an "apartheid state" and committing "act[s] of terrorism." These statements are antisemitic at their core and contribute to a climate that is hostile to many Jews. We must never forget that less than eighty years ago, within the lifetime of our parents and grandparents, six million people were murdered by the Nazis in the Holocaust because they were Jews. Israel has long provided the Jewish people with a homeland in which they can be safe after facing long centuries of persecution.
The lawmakers went on to remind the president that history shows that "when this type of violence and inflammatory rhetoric goes unaddressed, it can fuel increasing hatred and violence."
Their letter included a clear hint to the Squad: "Antisemitism is wrong, and it deserves to be unequivocally condemned by all."
However, as HotAir's Ed Morrissey pointed out, some observers were none too impressed by the fact that no one in the Squad was called out by name. But at least "the rift over The Squad's hateful rhetoric is now out in the open," Morrissey noted.
[twitter_embed https://twitter.com/mkraju/statuses/1397563797691408384 iframe_id="twitter-embed-1397563797691408384" created_ts=1622040149 name="Manu Raju" embed_mobile_width=375 text="Four House Dems making clear their displeasure with some progressives over Israel rhetoric. \u201cWe also reject comments from Members of Congress accusing Israel of being an \u2018apartheid state\u2019 and committing \u2018act[s] of terrorism.\u2019 These statements are antisemitic at their core\u201dpic.twitter.com/fSbhqRohAO" embed_desktop_height=799 embed_desktop_width=550 embed_mobile_height=696 id="1397563797691408384" expand=1 screen_name="mkraju"]Dave Rubin of "The Rubin Report" reacts to a recent Latino USA interview in which Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez revealed that she is in therapy because of her "extraordinarily traumatizing" experience during the Capitol riot on Jan. 6. She also reportedly claimed that by being on U.S. Capitol grounds that day, members of Congress effectively "served in war."
Ocasio-Cortez was bashed online after clips from the Latino USA interview made the rounds on social media.
"AOC doesn't know what it's like to come under attack by machine gun fire, mortars or RPGs. She hasn't seen the horror of roadside IED explosions on bystanders & children. She hasn't lost fellow soldiers on the battlefield or seen friends permanently disfigured by Taliban attacks," tweeted Michael Waltz, former U.S. Army Green Beret and congressman.
Dave played an audio clip from the interview in which the New York congresswoman said she's attending therapy after the trauma of her experience during the riot, and that she's learning how to "slow down" after the attack.
"After the 6th, I took some time and it was really [Rep.] Ayanna Pressley when I explained to her what happened to me, like the day of, because I ran to her office, and she was like, 'you need to recognize trauma and that this is something that you went through, but we're all going through,'" Ocasio-Cortez said.
"Yeah, oh yeah, I'm doing therapy," she added. "But also I've just slowed down. I think the Trump administration had a lot of us, especially Latino communities, in a very reactive mode."
"AOC has just turned out to be one of the most inauthentic, and in many ways backwards, politicians that we have," Dave commented. "She just wants scorched earth around her — and she's doing it in the name of 'I am the good guy.' It's pretty gross."
"She so desperately wants to be the victim," he added later.
Watch the video clip from "The Rubin Report" below:
Want more from Dave Rubin?
To enjoy more honest conversations, free speech, and big ideas with Dave Rubin, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Just one day after news broke that the Biden administration shut down a Trump-era probe that sought to determine if the coronavirus leaked from a Chinese lab, President Biden issued a statement relaying that he has asked the U.S. intelligence community to "redouble" the effort to investigate the pandemic's origins.
Included in the new investigation will be heavy consideration of the accidental lab leak theory, which for months has been readily dismissed by Biden, his team, and Democratic counterparts in the media.
In the statement issued on Wednesday, Biden announced — seemingly out of nowhere — that he received a report earlier this month from U.S. intelligence agencies detailing that they had "coalesced around two likely scenarios" regarding the pandemic's origins. But the intelligence community, Biden reported, had not reached a definitive conclusion on this question of "whether it emerged from human contact with an infected animal or from a laboratory accident."
The current position, according to the president, is that "two elements in the IC leans toward the former scenario and one leans more toward the latter — each with low or moderate confidence." He added that "the majority of elements do not believe there is sufficient information to assess one to be more likely than the other."
The theory surmising that the coronavirus was accidentally leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology has been espoused for more than a year by conservative and alternative media organizations — including this one — as circumstantial evidence continued to pile up.
It was also believed to be the leading theory among President Trump and his senior team, and was promoted by some outspoken Republican lawmakers, including Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.).
Though presumably because Trump and other Republican politicians were insistent about the theory, Democratic lawmakers and left-wing media figures by-in-large dismissed the theory as anti-Chinese propaganda. It seems that has now changed as the theory has gained considerable traction.
In the statement, Biden charged the intelligence community to report back to him with a more definitive conclusion within 90 days. As a part of the effort, he directed U.S. national laboratories to assist with the investigation and urged China to cooperate with international probes.
"The United States will also keep working with like-minded partners around the world to press China to participate in a full, transparent, evidence-based international investigation and to provide access to all relevant data and evidence," Biden wrote.
That said, the Associated Press reported that "privately, administration officials say the end result, if ever known, won't change anything."Video recorded in Kansas City on Tuesday — the anniversary of George Floyd's death while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police — reportedly shows a Black Lives Matter protestor standing in the middle of a blocked-off intersection and directly threatening the lives of police.
"Cause we're tired of being shot and killed because we're gonna get pulled over for air fresheners..." the woman declared through a bullhorn in reference to one of the reasons why Daunte Wright was pulled over before he was fatally shot by Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, police while resisting arrest.
The protester continued her rant: "I'm waiting for one of those mother f***ers to pull me over. Cause baby, where I'm from we don't give two f***s about the police."
And then the woman — who apparently hails from Chicago — lowered her biggest boom: "Let them kill one of ours. Guess what we doing? We kill one of theirs in Chicago baby. We gonna knock on your door; we gonna blow your motherf***in' head off."
Here's the clip. Content warning: Language:
How did folks react?
As you might expect, a number of those who viewed the video were less than impressed by the woman's declarations — particularly her threat to relieve police officers of their heads via gunfire:
"I got a grand that says she doesn't have a job," one commenter quipped.
"I see a person that can now be charged with terrorist threats at minimum," another user said.
"Direct threat on police officers lives!" another commenter exclaimed. "How is she not being arrested? America needs to take out the trash! This should be deemed unacceptable by those of any political affiliation."
"How is this not an attempt to incite violence," another user wondered. "What has this person been taught, or what has happened to her to make her think this is the way?"
"Why aren't these people being canceled/employers called? Why are the Republicans so docile while the left literally screams racism and hatred," another commenter asked. "Republicans are just as pathetic as Democrats for allowing this."
Anything else?
John Curtis, the original poster of the above clip, also noted on Twitter that it appeared that police had ordered demonstrators out of the streets — and that the "hard ass" who made the statement about shooting police was seen speaking to officers.
Curtis also posted another video showing a pickup truck driver blaring the vehicle's horn at protesters blocking an intersection — which resulted in a handful of protesters confronting the driver while holding signs. He noted that the driver and other motorists simply turned their vehicles around.
Content warning: Language:World famous liberal actor and comedian Russell Brand is calling out Big Tech, the mainstream media, and the Democratic Party for conspiring to kill the Hunter Biden laptop scandal in order to manipulate the presidential election and get President Donald Trump out of office.
What happened?
Just weeks before the 2020 election, the New York Post dropped its Hunter Biden laptop scandal bombshell revealing communications between then-presidential candidate Joe Biden's son and foreign business interests, including Ukrainian gas company Burisma and China's biggest private energy company.
The damning report also raised serious questions about Joe Biden's ties to his son's ventures — but only for readers of non-left-wing media outlets.
The Post's story didn't sit well with the Democratic Party, the mainstream media, and Big Tech — so they did what they could to suppress the story.
Left-wing outlets ignored it or tried to explain it away.
Facebook limited distribution of the report pending a so-called "fact-checker review."
Most famously, Twitter completely censored the story and locked the New York Post out of its own account.
What is Brand saying?
Now, Brand, a famously left-wing celebrity with a massive platform, is ripping into Big Tech and the media for working with Democrats to kill a story that voters should have been aware of.
Image source: YouTube/Russell Brand video screenshot
In a recent episode of his podcast, "Under the Skin," Brand interviewed investigative journalist Glenn Greenwald about the Post's Hunter Biden story as well as Greenwald's own reporting on Joe Biden's connections to Chinese business interests, which led to Greenwald being fired by the media company he founded.
Greenwald noted that there was a trove of documents that allowed journalists to investigate not just Hunter Biden's activities, but also Joe Biden's connections. But most journalists were not interested.
If you don't want to dig into that kind of material as a journalist, Greenwald said, "go do anything else."
"There were a lot documents that raised serious questions about whether Joe Biden, the person at the time running for president and likely to become the most powerful politician on earth, was intervening in Ukraine for the benefit of the company that was paying his son $50,000 a month for absolutely no reason other than to have influence with Joe Biden," Greenwald said.
He went on to remind Brand that "information monopolies" Twitter and Facebook "banned" and "censored" the story, "like you were in China."
"This is like three weeks before the election," Greenwald added. "Silicon Valley monopolies that were supporting one of the candidates were censoring authentic reporting about the candidate they were supporting."
In a followup video about the Greenwald interview, Brand raised a number of questions and concerns.
"Look I'm not a pro-Republican person," he began. "I don't see myself that way. I don't see myself as conservative ... or the kind of media establishments that were reporting on these [Biden] revelations. They are not my culture, social, or political allies."
However, Brand added, it seems worth asking, "What reason is Hunter Biden sat on the board of an energy company in Ukraine? What reason is James Biden sat on the board, or receiving payments from an energy company, in China?"
"For me, revelations that there are financial connections between energy companies in Ukraine, energy companies in China, and the Biden family are troubling," he continued. "That should be public knowledge."
Yet, those questions were censored by the media and Big Tech.
"It's even more troubling that Twitter and Facebook and the media at large deliberately kept it out of the news because they didn't want it to influence the election," Brand said.
"What is democracy, then?" he asked. "It suggests to me that democracy is, 'We want you to vote for this person. We don't want you to vote for that person.'"
Then Brand called out the fact that the national media, Twitter, Facebook, and other members of Big Tech "conspired" to kill the Hunter Biden story, which he called the "manipulation of elections."
"I'm sad to realize that I can no longer even claim to believe Joe Biden or the Democratic Party might be the answer, because look at how they behave," he said. "And look at the relationships between media, social media, and that party. They conspired to keep information away from you because it was not convenient to their agenda. How does that make you feel?
"The fact is that this information was stymied, stifled, controlled because it didn't suit the shared agenda of these three pillars of power," Brand continued. "That almost concerns me more than the nature of the revelations themselves.
"The idea that information is being controlled — that's not democracy, that's not freedom, that's manipulation of elections," he said. "If it were the other side doing that, the companies that are here implicated would be ecstatically propagating and proliferating that data."
Brand lamented that the U.S. is going to resemble the former Soviet Union when it comes to information suppression, saying "our depiction of places like communist Russia, the Soviet Union, as these draconian, malevolent places where you're not free ... it is also true here. The same thing is happening."
Content warning: rough language:Lawmakers in the Republican-controlled Texas Legislature have passed a so-called "trigger" bill that would criminalize performing an abortion in the state should the Supreme Court decide to overturn Roe v. Wade.
What are the details?
The bill, H.B. 1280, which stipulates that state residents "may not knowingly perform, induce, or attempt an abortion," received final approval from the state Senate on Tuesday and is now on its way to Republican Gov. Greg Abbott's desk.
The bill is scheduled to take effect "to the extent permitted" 30 days after Roe v. Wade is either "wholly or partly" overturned.
Once in effect, those performing an abortion in the state will be committing a second-degree felony and be subjected to a civic penalty of at least $100,000. Furthermore, should the unborn child die as a result of the offense, the crime escalates to a first-degree felony which, according to the Dallas Morning News, could carry up to a life sentence in prison.
There are no exceptions in the bill for pregnancies that result from rape or incest, however, some narrow exceptions exist for pregnant women who face medical emergencies.
Why does it matter?
The legislation anticipates a pro-life ruling from the ideologically conservative Supreme Court when it takes up a case about abortion this fall, or perhaps in subsequent cases.
The court announced earlier this month that it had agreed to hear arguments this fall in a dispute over a Mississippi law that bans virtually all abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, is the first to make it to the nation's top court from an onslaught of state laws passed by Republicans in recent years which were designed to challenge Roe v. Wade.
The court's decision to hear the case sets up a key showdown that many pro-life advocates believe could result in a major rollback of abortion rights.
Anything else?
The legislature's approval of the bill came less than a week after another pro-life measure restricting abortion was signed into law in the state.
Last Wednesday, Gov. Abbott signed into law a bill that prohibits abortions as early as six weeks, or once a fetal heartbeat is detected, and empowers nearly any private citizen to sue abortion providers or anyone who "aids or abets" an abortion.President Joe Biden's radically pro-gun control nominee to lead the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms and Explosives confirmed Wednesday, when pressed by Republican senators, that he supports a ban on a wide range of so-called "assault-style weapons," which include more rifles than just an AR-15.
David Chipman, a longtime gun control lobbyist with more than two decades experience working for ATF, faced questions from several Senate Judiciary Committee Republicans on his views on guns, admitting to Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) that he supports a ban on AR-15 rifles and would enforce such a ban if Congress were to legislate one.
"Mr. Chipman, a minute ago Sen. Whitehouse asked you if any of your views on guns are out of step with a majority of the American people. The AR-15 is one of, if not the most popular rifle in America. It's not a machine gun, it's a rifle. Your public position is that you want to ban AR-15s, is that correct?" Cruz asked.
"With respect to the AR-15, I support a ban," Chipman answered. "The AR-15 is a gun I was issued on ATF's S.W.A.T team and it's a particularly lethal weapon and regulating it as other particularly lethal weapons, I have advocated for."
Chipman works as a senior policy adviser at Giffords, a gun control advocacy group let by former Arizona Democratic Rep. Gabby Giffords, who was severely injured in a shooting attack in 2011. In that capacity, he has advocated for limits on high-capacity magazines and a federal assault weapons ban.
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and others pressed Chipman to define the term "assault weapons," which some gun control proponents with limited knowledge of firearms have come to use as a catch-all phrase to describe guns they don't like.
Cotton wanted specifics, asking, "What is an assault weapon?"
"Senator, an assault weapon would be — in the context of the question you asked — what Congress defines it as," Chipman answered in an attempt to dodge the question.
"So you're asking us to ban assault weapons, we have to write legislation, can you tell me what is an assault weapon? How would you define it if you were the head of the ATF?" Cotton pressed.
Chipman eventually cited the ATF to define an assault rifle as "any semi-automatic rifle capable of accepting a detachable magazine above the caliber of .22."
"I"m amazed that might be the definition of an assault weapon," Cotton said. "That would basically cover every single modern sporting rifle in America today."This isn't one of those exasperating stories that features homeowners unable to jettison squatters from their property despite all justice and reason.
No, this tale is mostly about the jaw-dropping things squatters literally were allowed to get away with after they were out of the property — and all while local police helplessly watched.
What are the details?
Recently squatters broke in to a multimillion-dollar home in Sammamish, Washington, which certainly piqued the interest of local workers who help maintain the property while the homeowner lives overseas, KIRO-TV reported.
And what did one of these workers find once inside the home?
Oh, just a dozen guns, bulletproof vests, over 15,000 fentanyl pills, along with heroin and meth and more than $40,000 in cash, the station said.
Not surprisingly, the worker called 911, after which police arrived, KIRO reported.
"The amount of guns, drugs, etcetera that were confiscated out of that place are not for personal use or for any good reason," Sammamish Police Chief Dan Pingrey told the station. "I totally recognize how frustrating it is for the neighborhood, and it's just as frustrating for us to be honest with you."
Oh, but it gets better.
Pingrey explained to KIRO that while police were on the scene "an unlicensed motorcycle showed up with two people on it."
The chief told the station that neighbors identified the duo on the motorcycle as the squatters, and they were duly arrested for burglary.
But wouldn't you know that they were both out of jail within days, KIRO said — and headed back to the property, this time with a crew of people in tow.
"After they were out of jail, we had a large group trying to get back into the house," Pingrey told the station. "No one was supposed to be there. The homeowners were not allowing anyone to stay there."
How much more frustrating does it get?
And then — like a cherry on top of a free cake — the squatters demanded to be allowed to take items from the property they claimed they owned, KIRO reported.
Pingrey explained to the station that law enforcement was limited in what it could do based on advice from from local prosecutors and lawyers — in other words, legally their hands were tied — and all officers could do was conduct a "civil standby."
KIRO said a neighbor took photos of police vehicles lined up on the street with officers watching the squatters filling a U-Haul truck with items from inside the home.
One photo showed a garage full of appliances — as well as an ATM, the station said.
"We were not allowed to go in there with them and had to allow them to take this property out," Pingrey told KIRO. "The person who had been illegally living there [was able] to come in and get what they stated was their property."
It isn't clear specifically who advised police that they weren't allowed to enter the property with the squatters. The King County Prosecutor's Office on Wednesday didn't immediately respond to TheBlaze's request for comment, and Pingrey was not in his office Wednesday.
Anything else?
The station reported that a worker for the homeowner was on the property Monday and said he was changing the locks. KIRO added that a home security technician also there.
"Somehow these squatters who are living in this residence have as much rights as the homeowner. And that's very difficult for any of us to understand," Pingrey added to the station. "It could happen again somewhere else, and this is where people in communities really need to be diligent."Former President Donald Trump has enlisted former Republican House Speaker and 2012 presidential candidate Newt Gingrich to design a policy agenda that Republicans can use to win back control of Congress in 2022.
Politico reported Tuesday that Trump invited Gingrich, his former chief of staff Mark Meadows, and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) to join him at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida and begin work on a new version of the "Contract with America" for Republicans to rally behind in the upcoming midterm elections. The document will attempt to transform the "America First" principles of Trump's presidential campaigns into "a policy priority for 2022 and beyond" on everything from trade to immigration.
Gingrich told Politico in an interview that the document won't be ready "anytime soon" but he did make suggestions about what it should look like.
"It should be positive," Gingrich said. "School choice, teaching American history for real, abolishing the '1619 Project,' eliminating critical race theory and what the Texas legislature is doing. We should say, 'Bring it on.'"
Under Gingrich's leadership in 1994, Republicans crafted the "Contract with America," a set of policies and laws they promised to vote on if they won control of the House of Representatives. That year Republicans won 52 seats in the House and nine seats in the Senate, a revolution that forced President Bill Clinton to moderate and work with Congress to reform welfare, balance the budget, and get tough on crime.
That Trump would recruit Gingrich for a new contract-style agenda suggests that in exile from Washington, D.C., and with 2022 and 2024 in view, the former president is attempting to build what his previous campaigns for the presidency lacked: A policy platform every Republican could run on.
Trump's vague promises to "Make America Great Again" during his two campaigns for president worked as slogans that rallied his supporters but never translated into a governing agenda for the Republican Party. The ex-president's skepticism of free trade, opposition to reforming entitlement programs, and focus on border security and culture war issues was never fully embraced by establishment Republicans. The result was that the major victories Trump won for his base were accomplished via executive order, and subsequently undone by President Joe Biden.
The Trump presidency secured few major legislative victories. Efforts to keep the Republican Party's longstanding promise to repeal and replace Obamacare failed miserably, and Trump's inability to rally legislators around a unified health care plan was a factor in that failure. Even with Republicans in complete control of Congress from 2016 to 2018, the government spent $2.3 trillion — more than President Obama spent during his first two years in office.
Trump's greatest legislative achievement was the 2017 tax cut, which reduced the corporate tax rate and doubled the child tax credit. But it's easy to rally Republicans around cutting taxes, and the 2017 law fell far short of transformational tax reforms supported by conservatives.
Perhaps the greatest evidence of Trump's previous neglect of policy and disunity in the GOP was the Republican National Committee's inability to create a platform during the 2020 presidential election.
A new "Contract with America"-style campaign agenda could unite Trump-supporting Republicans and provide a blueprint for what a governing agenda will look like. Concrete promises might become concrete legislative accomplishments, as they did in 1994.
But it remains to be seen if the Republican Party, let alone the American people, will support those promises.Book publisher HarperCollins announced Tuesday that publication of an America-themed Bible, complete with founding documents and patriotic song lyrics, would not move forward.
News about the Bible's publication, which surfaced last week, immediately triggered criticism from prominent Christians who believe Christianity and the Bible should not be with American nationalism.
What are the details?
The Bible was slated to include the New International Version translation of the biblical text, which is the best-selling translation in America.
However, HarperCollins, which holds the exclusive rights to the translation and publishes it through its imprint Zondervan, canceled a manufacturing agreement in negotiation that would have allowed the Bible's creator to use the NIV translation, according to Religion Unplugged.
"Zondervan is not publishing, manufacturing or selling the 'God Bless the USA Bible.' While we were asked for a manufacturing quote, ultimately the project was not a fit for either party, and the website and marketing of the NIV project were premature," Zondervan said in a statement.
The custom Bible was slated to ship to customers in September to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
Religion Unplugged reported:
In its last pages, the custom Bible pre-selling for $49.99 includes the full texts of the U.S. Constitution, Bill of Rights, Declaration of Independence and pledge of allegiance. The holy book also includes licensed lyrics to the popular 1984 song by country music singer-songwriter Lee Greenwood, "God Bless the USA."
...
The "God Bless the USA Bible" is a product of Elite Source Pro, a Middle, Tenn.-based company that helps businesses with sales, marketing and strategy, including in Nashville's entertainment industry. Hugh Kirkpatrick, president of Elite Source Pro, confirmed to Religion Unplugged that Zondervan granted the required licensing for the custom Bible.
Kirkpatrick told Religion Unplugged the seed idea for the new Bible was planted last fall after he took notice of culture wars increasingly eroding traditional American history.
"We noticed the divide in the public where some people started seeing pro-American images like the flag, the bald eagle, the statue of liberty as weaponized tools of the Republican party, and we didn't understand that," he explained.
"In past civilizations, libraries have been burned. Documents torn down. We started seeing statutes coming down and we started seeing history for good or bad trying to be erased," Kirkpatrick added. "That's when we started thinking, okay how far does this erasing of history go? Love it or hate it, it's history. But how far does it go…? Part of having these statues...is so that we don't repeat those same mistakes."
What did critics say?
Prominent Christian authors and speakers like Lisa Sharon Harper, Jemar Tisby, and Shane Claiborne, all of whom are Zondervan authors, published a letter condemning the project.
They argued it promoted "American nationalism."
American nationalism is its own civil religion, where America rather than Jesus is the center of attention. Instead of Jesus and the Church being the light of the world and the hope for humanity, America becomes the Messianic force in the world. Like any religion it has its own liturgy, saints and holidays. These symbols are on full display in this new Bible – the eagle, the flag, the red, white and blue. America's civil religion has its own creeds too in the new Bible – "We hold these truths to be self-evident…" It has its own "worship" songs – like "God Bless the USA" and "I'm Proud to be an American," both by Lee Greenwood. It has its own theology – manifest destiny, the doctrine of discovery and American exceptionalism. And this is precisely why it is dangerous to mesh patriotism with orthodox Christian faith.
After all, the Bible does not say "God bless America." It says, "God so loved the world." The national anthem should not be in the church hymnal, and the Pledge of Allegiance to the United States should not be in the Bible.
What is next?
Although Kirkpatrick's project cannot contain the NIV translation, he told Religion Unplugged the project will move forward with the outdated King James translation instead.
In most countries, the KJV translation — which is more than 500 years old and does not include modern manuscript discoveries — is public domain and does not require licensure for publication.
"They're [HarperCollins] trying to figure a way to get it done," Kirkpatrick said. "They want to keep everybody happy. They want to keep their fans on the left and right."The Biden administration on Tuesday denied several Republican lawmakers access to a Drug Enforcement Administration border facility in El Paso, Texas.
A delegation of 12 GOP members of Congress were physically restricted from entering the El Paso Intelligence Center during a visit to the southern border, Fox News reported. The lawmakers have reportedly attempted to gain access to the facility for weeks and been rebuffed by Biden's government.
The GOP lawmakers accused the Biden administration of interfering with their "constitutional duty to have oversight over these facilities that are paid for by taxpayer dollars."
"All I can say is, I don't know what they have to hide," Rep. Brian Babin (R-Texas) said. "For some reason, we were not allowed in. I can only imagine what is it that they want to hide and not show the very representatives of the American people that have oversight over this facility that fund it and that authorize it. What don't they want us to see?"
"This is not something we surprised them with," Rep. Mike Garcia (R-Calif.) added. "We've been trying to get in there for a couple of weeks and it's coming from the top. It's coming from the White House. They don't want us to see what it is. You can make a conjecture about why they won't let us in there. In my opinion, they have data they are gathering at this intelligence center which clearly indicates that our open borders are actually a more serious than the average American understands right now."
A third lawmaker complained that Biden is preventing Republicans from learning about the government's efforts to battle drug cartels.
"I would have liked to have the opportunity to visit with the FBI and the agents there to learn more about what the drug cartels are doing and what strategy we're employing to stop them," Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.) said, "but we were denied the opportunity."
A DEA official stationed at the El Paso facility told Fox News there was an increase in drug smugglers crossing the U.S.-Mexico border in March and indicated agents are concerned that recent trends will continue.
"In the first five months we've seized more than the entire year for those for 2019 and 2020, so that's concerning for us and that's all drugs across the board, that is methamphetamine, fentanyl, heroin and cocaine. The only drug is marijuana, we haven't seized quite that much," said DEA special agent Kyle Williamson, who leads the El Paso Division.President Biden's chief medical adviser, Dr. Anthony Fauci, defended the National Institutes of Health's controversial funding of bat coronavirus research in Wuhan, China, on Tuesday, claiming that it would have been "almost a dereliction of duty" not to assist Chinese researchers in studying the pathogens.
Fauci, who also serves as the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, an agency under the NIH umbrella, acknowledged to lawmakers during a House Appropriations subcommittee that the U.S. engaged in "a modest collaboration with very respectable Chinese scientists who were world experts on coronavirus."
The public health expert vehemently denied that any of the funding went toward risky "gain-of-function" research, which deliberately enhances pathogens, making them more transmissible or pathogenic, in order to predict which could be especially dangerous to the human population.
"That categorically was not done," he claimed.
The NIH has been under intense scrutiny of late for its decision, with NIAID's backing, to approve granting more than $7 million in American taxpayer money to the Wuhan Institute of Virology between 2014 and 2020, with at least $600,000 earmarked for the study of bat coronaviruses like the one that spawned the COVID-19 pandemic.
Despite Fauci's insistence that none of the funding was intended to support gain-of-function research, earlier in the hearing, according to the Washington Examiner, NIH Director Dr. Francis Collins offered a more murky explanation.
Collins explained to Republican Rep. Andy Harris (Md.) that researchers at the Wuhan lab "were not approved by NIH for doing gain-of-function research" but added "we are, of course, not aware of other sources of funds or other activities they might have undertaken outside of what our approved grant allowed."
Harris assessed based on Collins' answer that "we could have sent money through EcoHealth Alliance. [Then] money could have ended up at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which might be doing gain-of-function research," noting that grant money is "somewhat fungible."
The situation is made worse by the fact that U.S. diplomats reportedly warned in 2018 that risky coronavirus research was taking place at the WIV in spite of the lab's "serious shortage of appropriately trained technicians and investigators."
Moreover, it appears at this point that the $600,000 grant sent through EcoHealth Alliance to the WIV — which Fauci characterized as "modest" — was not transferred to an independent review board specifically set up to evaluate whether grants that fund research on dangerous pathogens are worth the risk.
FY 2022 Budget Request for the National Institutes of Health (EventID=112678) youtu.be
On Tuesday, the Senate passed an amendment introduced by Republican Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.) that bans the use of American taxpayer dollars to fund gain-of-function research in China.
"We may not know whether this ever arose out of a Wuhan lab, but I think gain-of-function research where we take a deadly virus — sometimes much more deadly than COVID — and then we increase its transmissibility to mammals is wrong," Paul said in a floor speech before the vote.In this episode of "Unashamed," Phil, Jase, and Al Robertson with cousin Zach Dasher talk about the right of a free people to protect their homes and families from aggressive invaders. Jase proposes a new law, and Phil is totally on board. Zach highlights the bait and switch of today's cancel culture but also sees it as a big opportunity to share the Gospel. Plus, Al is pumped about an upcoming podcast guest; Jase wants to make a movie about Revelation; and the guys discuss temptation, the wrath of God, deliverance from misery, and why living for yourself ends in a terrible way.
Watch the full episode of "Unashamed" below:
Want more from Phil Robertson?
To enjoy more of this "Duck Dynasty" star's 70 years of unfiltered wisdom and uncensored common sense, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Video footage posted on social media shows a transgender-affirming medical professional arguing that children should be able to choose to undergo sex reassignment procedures because they "most of the time make good decisions."
And besides, the doctor added — in specific reference to breast reduction surgery — it can always be reversed later in life.
"Actually, people make life altering decisions in adolescence all the time, and honestly most of them are good, it's just the bad ones that we talk about," said Dr. Johanna Olson-Kennedy, who serves as the medical director for the Center for Transyouth Health and Development at the Children's Hospital Los Angeles.
As proof of her claim, Olson-Kennedy noted that not all children take part in dangerous and foolhardy social media challenges; some of them take the SATs.
"So what we do know is that adolescents actually have the capacity to make a reasonable, logical decision. And here's the thing about chest surgery. If you want breasts at a later point in your life, you can go and get them," the doctor continued.
The clip started gaining steam on social media after being posted to Twitter by Daily Wire columnist Matt Walsh, who called Olson-Kennedy's comments "pure evil."
Olson-Kennedy, who is also an associate professor at the University of Southern California, appears to have delivered the remarks during a July 2018 "Gender Spectrum Professional Symposium," according to reports.
The Daily Caller reported that the video was also mentioned in a popular book written by Wall Street Journal columnist Abigail Shrier, titled, "Irreversible Damage: The Transgender Craze Seducing Our Daughters."
In her book, Shrier examined the medical and psychological injury being caused to teenage girls — many of whom never considered undergoing a gender transition until it was pushed on them by adult counselors and social media influencers — who adopt a transgender lifestyle and undergo a sex change.
The book's blurb on Amazon relays that Shrier "has dug deep into the trans epidemic, talking to the girls, their agonized parents, and the counselors and doctors who enable gender transitions, as well as to 'detransitioners' — young women who bitterly regret what they have done to themselves."
According to Olson-Kennedy's bio page on CHLA's website, she is a highly decorated medical professional who "has been providing medical intervention for transgender youth and young adults including puberty suppression and cross sex hormones for the past six years, and is considered a national expert in this area."Ami Horowitz — a creator of digital shorts that throw conservative light on sociopolitical issues — is at it again.
What are the details?
Horowitz decided to pay a visit recently to left-wing bastion Portland State University to pose as a worker for "American Friends for Hamas" — a made-up group — who asks students to pledge donations in order to assist the terrorism-loving organization to carry out its mission to "destroy Israel."
And boy, did Horowitz lay it on thick for the camera.
"We're not your father's terrorist organization," he told students without a hint of tongue in cheek. "We've kind of evolved beyond that. It's still kind of what we do, but we've kind of rebuilt and rebranded ourselves and, you know ... Hamas is where it's at!"
Image source: YouTube screenshot
Horowitz even added the telltale rolling tongue on the "H" for extra Middle Eastern authenticity.
He proceeded to tell students that his group was raising money to help "fund operations against Israel" — and that they were looking to hit "soft targets" in "civilian populations" such as cafes, schools, hospitals, and places of worship to "make 'em feel it."
And no students seen in the video ran for the hills upon hearing Horowitz's genocidal pitches.
"That's the only way you can fight back, really," he said.
Horowitz even likened a "suicide bomber" to "kind of like the poor man's F-15."
"Right, right," one student responded in apparent agreement.
'We're looking to destroy Israel'
Further on in the open-air chats, Horowitz described "American Friends for Hamas" as "next-level BDS" — the acronym for the anti-Israel Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement — and "we're looking to wipe Israel off the map … we're looking to destroy Israel."
He added that "we don't want just Gaza, we want to have all of Israel."
Incredibly Horowitz also told at least one student that "to get peace you first gotta destroy some stuff, you know?"
How did students react?
There was no apparent pushback from students on the video Horowitz produced.
"I actually have been learning in this last school year about everything that's going on over there," one student told him. "So, I like the sound of what you're doing, it sounds like the right thing to do."
Another student said, "I'm totally against the Israeli genocide."
The video captured a number of students pledging to "American Friends for Hamas" in relatively small dollar amounts — all for the cause of killing off Israel. Horowitz wrote in a Fox News op-ed that it took him only about an hour to raise "hundreds of dollars for Hamas."
Check it out:Today, Steven covers what he believes John Cena and Joe Biden have in common. (HINT: It involves China and bending over.) Also, anti-semitic hate crimes are on the rise even though the media wants to ignore them. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer is a hypocrite. ESPN hates Tebow. And there were gunshots at the George Floyd Square memorial. That and more on "Louder with Crowder."
Watch here.
Want more from Steven Crowder?
To enjoy more of Steven's uncensored late-night comedy that's actually funny, join Mug Club — the only place for all of Crowder uncensored and on demand.President Joe Biden's administration reportedly shut down a State Department investigation into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic that was started last year by the Trump administration under then-Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's leadership.
News of the Biden administration's actions are significant because the theory that COVID-19 leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology — which the media once denounced as a conspiracy theory — has gained considerable traction in recent weeks, not that evidence existed previously showing the theory was not a viable possibility.
What are the details?
According to CNN, which broke the news late Tuesday, the Biden administration terminated a "closely-held" investigation initiated by former President Donald Trump's administration that sought to substantiate whether COVID-19 leaked from the Wuhan bio lab.
The investigation, which was conducted from the State Department's arms control and verification bureau, "was an honest effort to probe what many initially dismissed: that China's biological weapons program could have had a greater role in the pandemic's origin in Wuhan," according to CNN.
A State Department spokesperson told CNN that Biden officials terminated the investigation because they considered the inquiry a waste of resources.
"Even though this discrete project has concluded, the State Department continues to work with the interagency to look into the COVID origins issue," the spokesperson said.
More from CNN:
Proponents of the effort, including Pompeo himself, argued that the potential connection between the Chinese military and the pandemic needed to be investigated and that the administration was justified to include the inquiry in the State Department's ongoing and legally mandated review of countries' compliance with arms control treaties, according to four sources familiar with the matter.
Officials involved in the effort relied on scientific research as well as public and classified information to probe the lab leak theory, including looking into any possible connection between the virus and the Chinese government's biological weapons program, three of the sources told CNN.
CNN framed the investigation as potentially shady, citing critics who believe people working on the probe were "suspicious as hell" or "just fishing to justify pre-determined conclusions."
Bioweapons?
David Asher — a former top investigator for the State Department who, according to Fox News, has worked on some of the "most classified intelligence investigations" — revealed in March he believes the COVID-19 pandemic began when bioweapons research at the Wuhan lab resulted in an accidental virus leak.
"The Wuhan Institute of Virology is not the National Institute of Health," David Asher told Fox News. "It was operating a secret, classified program. In my view, and I'm just one person, my view is it was a biological weapons program."
In fact, before leaving the State Department, Pompeo released a memo explaining the U.S. government knew China was "engaged in classified research, including laboratory animal experiments, on behalf of the Chinese military since at least 2017" at the Wuhan bio lab.
Anything else?
The Wall Street Journal reported on American intelligence over the weekend that stated three researchers at the Wuhan lab became sick enough with COVID-like symptoms in November 2019 that they required hospitalization.
The revelation moves the COVID-19 timeline forward about one month. China has claimed "patient-zero" was confirmed in December.
More importantly, the intelligence emboldens the lab leak theory, which a group of 18 high-profile scientists said this month requires further investigation.
China denies COVID-19 leaked from its Wuhan lab, saying the pandemic began through wet markets located in Wuhan. The Chinese communist government has also blamed the U.S. for the pandemic.This week, the Biden White House hosted the family of George Floyd to mark the one-year anniversary of his death in police custody. His brother, Philonise, expressed hope that things are "slowly" moving in the right direction and that they are "making progress" in their war on cops. However, what is not going in the right direction is justice for victims of crime thanks to the agenda spawned by their movement.
Thanks to the pandemic and less social mobility, crime has been decreasing in most countries. That is with the exception of the United States. In 2020, the U.S. was hit with another pandemic. BLM's assault on law-and-order, in conjunction with the assault on incarceration of criminals, has led to an explosion of violence. It's not just the 108% increase in homicides in Minneapolis, the original epicenter of the BLM rioting. It's in nearly every major city across the country.
Perhaps gunshots ringing out during an ABC report at George Floyd Square in Minneapolis best exemplifies the evil fruits of the labor of BLM. In all the cities with strict gun control laws, shootings have become so rampant, and they have taken the lives of more black people than any crime wave in a generation.
Here are some of the latest crime tidbits from New York City, once the face of the generation-long decline in crime in America, as reported by the New York Post.
Comparing the week ending May 23 to the same week in 2020 (right before the BLM/Floyd effect), gun arrests dropped 24%. Not surprisingly, shootings skyrocketed by 72%. The number of gunshot victims rose by 92.6%.
In terms of the major crime categories, robberies were up 44.4%, felony assaults rose 35.3%, murder was up 28.6% grand larcenies were up 41.8%, and the number of stolen vehicles skyrocketed 49%.
Nearly every day, we hear about heinous crimes committed on NYC's subways, with the number of crimes in the transit system up 162% relative to the final week before the BLM riots last year.
One NYPD officer, quoted anonymously by the Post, hit the nail on the head when he noted that "They could hire 10,000 cops, but it won't matter unless the politicians change the laws and keep criminals in jail." It's not just about hampering and even defunding the police. It's that violent criminals and repeat offenders are able to violate their parole with impunity. So few people get locked up anymore.
The hole in our incarceration is even more gaping than the hole in policing. This is why, despite the temporary addition of 250 police patrols to monitor the subway violence, crime continues to skyrocket. What good are the cops if the criminals just get let out of jail indefinitely for years pending a trial that rarely results in meaningful prison time, if any time at all?
The rise in violent and property crimes is harming all citizens, but ironically, the most violent crimes are all being incurred by black victims. In Atlanta, another city with skyrocketing crimes, so far this year, a staggering 291 of the 311 shootings victims were black, while just 7 were white. How come nobody ever discusses the "equity" issue when it comes to black homicide victims and the need to get tougher, not weaker, on crime in order to actually protect black lives?
The media can no longer deny the skyrocketing crime, so they seek to deflect blame onto the pandemic. But as Nicole Gelinas observes, the crime rates in most other countries actually dropped because of the pandemic, as one would expect. For example, the murder rate dropped 16% last year in London, 14% in Italy, and 2% in France – all hard hit by the virus and the ensuing lockdown policies. Japan saw its lowest murder rate since World War II and even in cartel-ridden Mexico, the homicide rate held steady.
So, what suddenly changed in the United States?
Plummeting incarceration rates, the war on the cops, mass rioting, and the loss of a criminal justice deterrent that took a generation to build. To the extent that COVID-19 had anything to do with the rise in crime, it is the result of the gratuitous prison releases that were done under the false pretense of stopping the spread of COVID-19 in jail.
Recently, Ja'Ron Smith, one of Jared Kushner's pro-criminal henchmen who convinced Trump to make a U-turn on crime policy, wrote an op-ed calling for those people to be given permanent clemency.
How about focusing on victims of crime for once? Most importantly, such a focus would result in protecting all innocent lives, but as the crime data show, it would help black victims of crime more than anyone else. If BLM set out to kill more black people from crime, I'm not sure they could have done a better job.A black-owned automobile shop had been targeted for weeks by vandals leaving racist graffiti but the owner set up surveillance cameras, and was surprised to find out the suspects were also black.
The incident unfolded at Dwayne Haynesworth's Auto Body and Repair Shop in Spring Lake, North Carolina.
Haynesworth told WRAL that he was confused by the racist images left on cars by vandals over several weeks.
"I mean I'm not bothering anybody. I'm just out here trying to do business. I don't really know anybody out here," he said.
They spray-painted swastikas and KKK figures on his cars and left the message, "please leave." They also damaged several vehicles. The owner said the vandalism started after one of his vehicles was stolen from the lot he rents.
Haynesworth then set up surveillance cameras to capture images of the vandals.
Just 24 hours later, he showed the video to WRAL's Gilbert Baez.
The video showed two young males who appear to be black trying to steal one of Haynesworth's cars. The shop owner says there was more damage done to his vehicles, including paint scratches and windows broken.
One clue that might have tipped off the police to the incident being not a legitimate instance of white supremacy was that the swastika had one of the arms painted backwards.
Image Source: WRAL-TV video screenshot
Baez noted that the suspects appeared to be smoking a "blunt" on the video captured of them, and added that police didn't take any fingerprints at the scene of the crime.
The Spring Lake Police Department posted screenshots from the surveillance video on their Facebook page and asked for the public's help in identifying the suspects.
Here's the local news video about the incident:A grand jury has been convened by New York prosecutors to review evidence from a two-year investigation into former President Donald Trump's business dealings and weigh whether to indict him, according to multiple reports.
Trump issued a statement in reaction to the news, blasting the purported move as "a continuation of the greatest Witch Hunt in American history."
What are the details?
The Washington Post first reported Tuesday that sources say Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance empaneled the grand jury recently, and they "will sit three days a week for six months."
The newspaper reported that move suggests "that Vance believes he has found evidence of a crime — if not by Trump then by someone potentially close to him or by his company."
According to the Associated Press, one source says Vance's investigation into Trump involves "a variety of matters such as hush-money payments paid to women on Trump's behalf, property values and employee compensation."
The outlet added that "the investigation includes scrutiny of Trump's relationship with his lenders; a land donation he made to qualify for an income tax deduction; and tax write-offs his company claimed on millions of dollars in consulting fees it paid."
In reaction to the press, Trump issued a statement calling the prosecutor's actions "a continuation of the greatest Witch Hunt in American history."
"It began the day I came down the escalator in Trump Tower, and it's never stopped," he wrote. "They wasted two years and $48 million in taxpayer dollars on [special counsel Robert] Mueller and Russia Russia Russia, Impeachment Hoax #1, Impeachment Hoax #2, and it continues to this day, with illegally leaked confidential information."
The former president went on to say, "This is purely political, and an affront to the almost 75 million voters who supported me in the Presidential Election, and it's being driven by highly partisan Democrat prosecutors."
Trump also suggested New York officials should have higher priorities, writing, "New York City and State are suffering the highest crime rates in their history, and instead of going after murderers, drug dealers, human traffickers, and others, they come after Donald Trump."
"Our country is broken," he added. "Our elections are rigged, corrupt, and stolen, our prosecutors are politicized, and I will just have to keep on fighting like I have been for the last five years!"The woke mob came clamoring for Joanna and Chip Gaines again after he donated to the campaign of woman running for a local school board who also happens to be his sister.
Shannon Braun is running for a seat of the Grapevine-Colleyville ISD school board and has received $1,000 from the famous couple, as reported in the Dallas Morning News.
She is also vocally opposing the implementation of school curriculum that includes critical race theory. For that reason, the Gaines are being targeted for cancellation yet again.
"I will vote down anything and everything that further promotes critical race theory in our school district and actively work to remove all critical race theory," Braun says in a campaign video posted to her Facebook page.
Some headlines, like the one at The Hill, imply that the couple donated for the sake of defeating critical race theory. That led to scorn from many on Twitter against the Gaines.
"F*** TV stars Chip and Joanna Gaines and the house they rehabbed in on. I'll bet you 25 of my cow pies that neither of the Gainses can tell you accurately what Critical Race Theory actually is," responded one critic.
"Wow. Johanna... really?!? ...during a time when hate crimes against Asian Americans have gone through the roof? Disgusting," replied another.
"I'm done watching their boring ass Waco show….$600 lamps….kiss my grits. She think she gets the White AMEX due to him but she will be shopped by security at Lowe's like the rest of us," said another.
The Gaines have been a high value target for cancellation from the left since it was reported in 2016 that the church they attended taught that homosexuality was a sin. The couple survived that controversy and have only gained in popularity since they refused to cave in to the woke mob.
The Gaines are scheduled to launch their own network, called Magnolia, on July 15.
Here's more about the Gaines and their legacy:Movie celebrity Seth Rogen said that comedians should stop complaining about cancel culture or just leave comedy altogether.
The actor made the comments during an interview with "Good Morning Britain" on Tuesday. He was asked to comment on controversial jokes from his past movies.
"There are certain jokes that for sure have not aged well, but I think that's the nature of comedy," Rogen responded.
"I think conceptually those movies are sound and I think there's a reason they've lasted as far as people still watching and enjoying them today. Jokes are not things that necessarily are built to last," he explained.
He then criticized comedians for complaining about cancel culture,.
"To me when I see comedians complaining about this kind of thing, I don't understand what they're complaining about. If you've made a joke that's aged terribly, accept it. And if you don't think it's aged terribly, then say that," he said.
Rogen added that criticism was "one of the things that goes along with being an artist, and if you don't like that, then don't be a comedian anymore."
Rogen's comments run contrary to those of many comedians who have warned that the witch hunt by the woke police has been destructive to their industry.
Chris Rock said in an interview on the "Breakfast Club" that cancel culture has made Americans afraid of saying anything at all.
"What happens is everybody gets safe and nobody tries anything. Things get boring," Rock said. "I see a lot of unfunny comedians, unfunny TV shows, unfunny movies because people are scared to make a move and that's not a good place to be.
Comedy legend Dave Chappelle criticized "Saturday Night Live" members who refused to work with Elon Musk when he was invited to host the show.
"I'm torn, because I like a warrior for a good cause, but I'm really into tactics. You're not gonna nag people into behaving in a way — in fact, if you continue with this tone, even if you're right, you'll be very hard to hear," Chappelle said.
Rogen has also said that he is actively hiring fewer white people in order to take action against racism.
Here's more on cancel culture in American society:Cheers and applause rang out in the Senate chamber on Tuesday evening after passage of an amendment offered by Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), which bans the use of U.S. taxpayer dollars to fund gain-of-function research in China.
What are the details?
"We may never know whether the pandemic arose from the lab in Wuhan, but we do know that so far no intermediate animal host has been discovered," Paul said in his speech ahead of the vote.
"Thousands of animals at the wet market have been looked at," he continued. "None of them have carried COVID-19. We've tried to infect COVID-19 into bats; it doesn't grow well in bats. It seems suitable for humans."
He reiterated, "We may not know whether this ever arose out of a Wuhan lab, but I think gain-of-function research where we take a deadly virus — sometimes much more deadly than COVID — and then we increase its transmissibility to mammals is wrong."
"In 2014, [National Institutes of Health] stopped all of this research," the senator went on to say, adding, "I'm using the same definition to say any gain-of-function research should not be funded in China with U.S. taxpayer dollars."
The measure then passed by a voice vote, prompting cheers and clapping from within the chamber.
What's the background?
In his most recent sparring match with Dr. Anthony Fauci a few weeks ago, Paul, a physician, pressed Fauci over NIH funding viral research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology and the possibility that COVID-19 was a product of "gain-of-function" research leaked from the lab.
"Dr. Fauci, do you still support funding of the NIH funding of the lab in Wuhan?" Paul asked.
"Sen. Paul, with all due respect, you are entirely, entirely and completely incorrect," Fauci replied. "The NIH has not ever, and does not now, fund 'gain of function research' in the Wuhan Institute."
Paul disputed Fauci's claims in a press release explaining his amendment, writing:
Despite Dr. Fauci's denial, there is ample evidence and backing by the scientific community that the NIH and the NIAID, under his direction, funded gain-of-function research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. A multitude of scientists have reviewed this research and said it meets the definition for gain-of-function. Many of these scientists have also discussed the inherent dangers of conducting gain-of-function research and the risks it poses to the human population.New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang accused the New York Daily News of using a racist stereotype to mock him after being criticized for his choice of a favorite subway station.
Yang released a statement on Tuesday.
"Yesterday a Daily News cartoon was published that depicted me — or a racialized caricature clearly intended to be me — as a tourist in Times Square. The cartoon stemmed from an interview where I shared that my favorite subway stop is the one I've used to get home for 22 years," explained Yang.
The cartoon was created by Bill Bramhall and showed Yang coming out of the Times Square subway station as a tourist.
Some have taken to ridicule Yang as being not native enough to New York City to run for mayor, but he and others have claimed this is resorting to a racist trope that all Asians aren't American enough.
"I've seen images like this before — in history books from the turn of the century and World War II," Yang continued. "Images of Asians having beady, slanted eyes and buck teeth have been a part of the American consciousness for a long time. It's grounded in a history of casting immigrants and children of immigrants as perpetual foreigners of even subhuman — a stereotype which has been used to divide and exclude people for hundreds of years."
Yang went on to tie the cartoon with the rise in violence against Asian Americans.
"Every time you say that I'm not a real New Yorker, you're telling another Asian American that they don't belong," he added.
"I've lived here for 25 years in this city," Yang continued. "My wife Evelyn is from Queens, My children were born at St. Luke's. I'm a public school parent. Implying otherwise is the repetition of a narrative that's been used to tell Asians and Latinos and Jews and Muslims and Black Americans that we don't belong."
On Monday, his wife Evelyn Yang made similar accusations against the New York Daily News cartoon and called it a "racist disfiguration" of her husband.
Yang is favored to win the mayoral election but Brooklyn borough president Eric Adams is close behind him in polling.
Here's more about the Yang campaign:Did COVID-19 emerge naturally, or did the virus escape from a lab in Wuhan, China? These are the questions science journalist Nicholas Wade addresses in an explosive new article: "Origin of Covid — Following the Clues."
As the deadly virus raced across the globe in 2020, a group of scientists claimed the virus' genetic makeup showed that it could not have come from a lab and the corporate media ran with that version of the story — smearing anyone who dared to ask questions as a conspiracy theorist or worse. But why did the media take this at face value instead of investigating all possible scenarios, especially when China has been known to choose secrecy over openness?
With the help of Wade's article, BlazeTV host Mark Levin revealed stunning new information about how scientific efforts to create super viruses for research purposes might have caused the pandemic.
Watch the video clip below from the latest episode of "LevinTV":
Want more from Mark Levin?
To enjoy more of "the Great One" — Mark Levin as you've never seen him before — subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.A flight attendant for Southwest Airlines was attacked by a passenger during a flight over the weekend and lost two teeth in the assault, according to a union president.
What are the details?
Transport Workers Union of America Local 556 President Lyn Montgomery brought up the incident in a letter to Southwest CEO Gary Kelly on Monday, urging him to boost security on flights to protect workers.
According to NBC News, Montgomery wrote that "From April 8 to May 15, there were 477 passenger misconduct incidents on Southwest Airlines aircraft."
"The unprecedented number of incidents has reached an intolerable level, with passenger non-compliance events also becoming more aggressive in nature," she argued.
The union boss said one flight attendant working over the weekend was "seriously assaulted, resulting in injuries to the face and a loss of two teeth."
A Southwest spokesperson told ABC News Tuesday that the incident occurred Sunday morning on a flight from Sacramento, California, to San Diego. Neither the passenger nor flight attendant were identified, but both are female.
"The passenger repeatedly ignored standard inflight instructions and became verbally and physically abusive upon landing," the spokesman said, adding that police took the passenger into custody upon landing.
The flight attendant was hospitalized but has been released.
What is FAA doing?
Fox News reported that the Federal Aviation Administration "has been cracking down on 'unruly' passengers" of late.
On Monday, the FAA tweeted, "The FAA has proposed fines between $9K and $15K against five passengers for allegedly interfering with and, in two cases, assaulting flight attendants. We have zero tolerance for unruly or dangerous behavior. Our fines can reach up to $35K."
NBC reported that "in a typical year, the agency sees 100 to 150 formal cases of bad passenger behavior. Since the start of this year, that number has jumped to 2,500, including about 1,900 passengers who refused to comply with the federal mask mandate, according to the FAA."Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) has vowed to "defund" cities in his state that cut funding for police, and says a bill that will soon reach his desk will do just that once he signs it into law.
What are the details?
The legislation seeks to crack down on the city of Austin for cutting $150 million in funding to its police force, and to prevent other localities in the Lone Star State from slashing law enforcement budgets.
Over the weekend, Abbott retweeted a post from Austin Police Association President Kenneth Casaday, which read:
"APD Case number- 211430419 Shooting Call came out at 5:35am this morning. No units available city wide for 12 minutes. First Apd patrol unit Assigned at 5:47am Apd made scene at 5:51am, 16 minutes after the call came out. Victim critically injured after being shot in the head."
The governor responded, "This is what defunding the police looks like. Austin is incapable of timely responding to a victim shot in the head. Texas won't tolerate this. We're about to pass a law — that I will sign — that will prevent cities from defunding police. Sanity & safety will return."
"So here's what we're doing in the state of Texas to put teeth into this law that provides real consequences for cities that do defund the police," Abbott told Fox News' Harris Faulkner on Tuesday. "One, we're going to dry up their revenue sources in a way that basically will put the city out of business.
"We're going to defund the city," he continued. "We're going to prohibit cities from being able to annex in the future but also allow people who have been annexed for 30 years to be able to de-annex."
Abbott went on to point to other cities in the country that have seen soaring crime rates after leaders made deep cuts to law enforcement in response to protests following the death of George Floyd last year.
"First, the context, and that is that you pointed out what's going on in Minneapolis, where it is both a tragedy and a disaster, what's going on for the residents of Minneapolis because of the defunded police," Abbot told Faulkner. "And you've seen the same thing in Portland and Seattle and Chicago and New York, et cetera."
"Unfortunately, we had the same thing happen here in the state of Texas where the city of Austin defunded police," he said, adding that "because Austin defunded the police, we wanted to do two things in this session: One, we wanted to make sure that there were going to be consequences for the city of Austin. The second is we wanted to make sure that no other city in the state of Texas would defund police."Stephen Willeford, the hero who stopped a gunman that murdered 26 congregants of First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, from committing further carnage, gave an emotional testimony Tuesday to the United States Senate speaking against proposed restrictions on gun owners.
The Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing organized by Chairman Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) on Ethan's Law, a bill that would create federal requirements for safe gun storage in homes where a minor is present and impose strict penalties, including possible jail time, on households that do not comply.
Ethan's Law is named for Ethan Song, a Connecticut teen who accidentally shot and killed himself with an unsecured firearm that had belonged to his friend's father in January 2018. Ethan's mother, Kristin Song, testified to the committee about her personal tragedy and her support for requiring gun owners to store their weapons in a biometric safe.
Willeford, a former NRA instructor and witness for the Republican minority, testified that federal restrictions like a requirement that firearms stored at the home be unloaded and locked up in safes could cost precious time in a life or death situation. He shared his story of the 2017 church shooting in Sutherland Springs, recounting how he could have saved more lives if his gun had not been locked away when he needed it.
"Today, I am here to tell you about what went wrong, and the consequences of those decisions. This is the hardest statement I will ever make in my life," Willeford told the committee in his opening statement.
"I have been a gun owner all my life. I own a safe, and because I thought it was the responsible thing to do, I kept my rifles and handguns locked away. Because nothing bad happens in my town. Until the day it did."
On Nov. 5, 2017, gunman Devin Kelley massacred 26 people and injured 20 more when he opened fire on the church attended by his wife Danielle's family. Kelley, who had been court-martialed and discharged from the Air Force in 2012 for assaulting his then-wife and stepchild, had a history of violence that should have prevented him from being able to purchase a firearm under existing federal law.
Willeford recounted how on that morning his daughter alerted him to gunfire at the nearby church, how he "flew into action," grabbing a rifle from his safe and rushed to confront the shooter.
"Imagine yourself running down the hallway to your house, and fumbling with the lock on your safe. Imagine hearing each shot ringing through the air, knowing that one of your community members is on the receiving end of each bullet. Knowing that you are not fast enough," he said. "I grabbed my AR-15, grabbed a handful of ammunition — eight rounds. I ran to my front door, loading the gun as I ran."
"How much time had I taken?" he continued. "I timed it now. It's about two minutes. I could have shaved 90 seconds off if my firearm had been loaded and not locked behind a giant steel door."
"90 seconds does not sound like a lot, but to me it will always be the longest 90 seconds of my lifetime and my greatest regret."
Willeford said he wonders how many lives he could have saved if he came to the rescue just minutes faster.
"I will always be haunted by those 90 seconds wasted getting my gun from the safe and loading it," he told Congress, on the verge of tears.
"I will never again keep my firearms unloaded in a safe. Whether or not this law passes, I will not comply. I won't make that mistake again. It came at too high a cost. The answer to our problem is not restrictions. It's an informed public. It's educating kids on gun safety from an early age.
"Government stepping into an individuals' homes and dictating how they can act in each circumstances, legislating how they are allowed to defend themselves and their families will not end well. We as individuals are responsible for the decisions we make in our own homes. We have that right — our government is there to protect and support that right, not legislate it."
Watch:LEGO has rolled out an LGBTQ-inspired set titled "Everyone is Awesome" just in time for Pride Month.
And it's the company's first-ever official LGBTQ Pride set, NBC News said.
What are the details?
The company said in a news release that the 11 monochrome minifigures — each with its own individual hairstyle and rainbow color — along with the rainbow stand and background are "designed to celebrate the diversity of our fans and the world around us."
Set designer Matthew Ashton, who's also LEGO's vice president of design, said he "wanted to create a model that symbolizes inclusivity and celebrates everyone, no matter how they identify or who they love. Everyone is unique, and with a little more love, acceptance, and understanding in the world, we can all feel more free to be our true AWESOME selves! This model shows that we care, and that we truly believe 'Everyone is awesome'!"
LEGO said the set goes on sale June 1 "to mark the start of Pride Month." The set costs $34.99.
Ashton added that "Everyone is Awesome" is also a celebration of the LGBTQ community within the LEGO Group and among the brand's adult fans.
"I am fortunate to be a part of a proud, supportive, and passionate community of colleagues and fans," he said. "We share love for creativity and self-expression through LEGO bricks, and this set is a way to show my gratitude for all the love and inspiration that is constantly shared."
What did observers have to say?
As you might imagine, not everyone was thrilled with LEGO's "Everyone is Awesome" roll out — and aired their sentiments on Twitter:
"This is so stupid. Just stupid and pandering," one user declared. "If you wanna help LGBTQ people, create a legal fund and raise money to help trans people who are being attacked and killed at an unacceptable rate. A rainbow lego set? GTFOH."
"I don't understand why kids need to be exposed to this and know about it at a young age," one commenter said.
"Absolute rubbish," another user exclaimed, adding that "very soon it'll be illegal to be straight."
"Grooming," another commenter observed.
"Please stop pushing this agenda," another user pleaded. "It's getting ridiculous what you guys are trying to shove down people's throats."
"No more LEGO products," another commenter concluded. "Add it to the woke list."Have you seen Apple's new privacy campaign? In their latest ad, Apple boasts that it now allows users to choose whether or not apps can track them and collect their personal information.
Apple claims: "Privacy is a fundamental human right. At Apple, it's also one of our core values. Your devices are important to so many parts of your life. What you share from those experiences, and who you share it with, should be up to you. We design Apple products to protect your privacy and give you control over your information. It's not always easy. But that's the kind of innovation we believe in."
In this clip, Pat Gray reacted to the Apple ad in amusement calling the move a joke.
"First of all, Google paid billions to Apple for Safari [Apple's default web browser] to route all internet searches through Google," Pat said.
He went on to say that while Apple now gives users more control over third-party tracking, the tech company still licenses Google to be the default browser, which generates revenue off of internet searches.
Watch the clip below for more. Can't watch? Download the podcast here.
Want more from Pat Gray?
To enjoy more of Pat's biting analysis and signature wit as he restores common sense to a senseless world, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Michigan pizzeria owner Marlena Pavlos-Hackney was jailed and fined for violating Michigan Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer's stringent COVID-19 restrictions. Now she's calling for the governor to be jailed and fined for her most recent flouting of her own coronavirus rules.
What's happening?
Gov. Whitmer was caught Saturday partying with several friends at an East Lansing bar in clear violation of her own May 15 pandemic order banning indoor dining at restaurants by parties of six or more and by groups of people who "intermingle."
The governor — who had just updated the rule one week earlier — later apologized for her absentmindedness, saying that as she and her friends got caught up in the moment "we didn't stop to think about it." Hoping that her subjects would allow bygones to be bygones, she added, "I am human. I made a mistake, and I apologize."
Two days later, Whitmer announced that she was lifting the rule she violated and claimed that the rule change had been planned well before the weekend's events — despite the fact that the updated rule was only one week old.
The governor's apologies, excuses, and about-face on the rule did not sit well with Pavlos-Hackney, the owner of Marlena's Bistro and Pizzeria, who was arrested, jailed for four days, and fined $15,000 for refusing to comply with coronavirus rules and a judge's order to close her restaurant and stop serving food, MLive reported.
Now the embattled restauranteur wants the governor to face the same fate.
In a Tuesday interview with Fox News, Pavlos-Hackney said Gov. Whitmer is a "servant" whose duty is to the people — and she should let Michiganders to be responsible for their own health, not force them to follow special order orders.
The business owner indicated the governor's apology and request forgiveness should not allow her to avoid punishment.
"I feel like all of us should be on the same page," she said. "If I have to face penalties which I went through — which was ... handcuffs, shackles, four nights in jail, fined $15,000 — I think she should face the same penalties."
"We the people, we [are] all equal. It does not matter [that] because you're the governor, we need to forgive you," she continued. “Treat us with dignity and respect — and equally. We [are] all equal, we the people."
Pavlos-Hackney's attorney, Robert Baker, addressed Whitmer's previous COVID-19 controversies — including secretly taking a private jet to Florida after blaming travel to the Sunshine State for Michigan's high infection rates and participating in a George Floyd march without concern for social distancing — noting that "you can never underestimate the arrogance and hypocrisy of power."
"She violated the law," Baker said, "so her own gatherings and face mask order make those violations, each one of them, a crime, a misdemeanor punishable up to six months in prison and $200 fine for each individual infraction."
The lawyer said they were appealing the case against Pavlos-Hackney and "planning a federal lawsuit within the next couple of weeks related to this."The worst, most damnable take to-date with regard to the Jan. 6 Capitol riot now belongs to Huffington Post senior White House correspondent S.V. Dáte.
What happened?
In a series of Twitter posts on Tuesday, Dáte claimed that the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against the United States — which were carried out by foreign Islamic extremists, killed nearly 3,000 Americans, injured 25,000 more, shut the stock market down for a week, and set off decades-long wars in the Middle East — were nothing in comparison to the extremism of the Jan. 6 riot that took place at the Capitol.
The liberal reporter was responding to a tweet thread by conservative commentator Byron York on Tuesday when he launched into an argument that eventually resulted in him shockingly claiming that the Capitol riot was "1000 percent worse" than 9/11.
After York pilloried fellow commentator George Will's desire to "see January 6th burned into the American mind as firmly as 9/11 because it was that scale of a shock to the system," Dáte jumped in to defend Will.
"Trump Apology Corps in full apology mode," he charged before arguing that "the 9/11 terrorists and Osama bin Laden never threatened the heart of the American experiment" but "the 1/6 terrorists and Donald Trump absolutely did exactly that."
Image Source: Twitter screenshot
"This attempt to whitewash what happened that day is shameful," Dáte continued, noting that while Sept. 11 was an "act of war," Jan. 6 was an "attempt to END OUR DEMOCRACY" carried out by U.S. citizens, including then-President Donald Trump.
Even after one commenter smartly pointed out that one of the hijacked planes on Sept. 11 was bound for the Capitol, Dáte refused to back off his stance.
"United 93 was intended to crash into the Capitol. You think January 6th was worse than that?" the commenter asked, to which Dáte responded, "1000 percent worse."
Image Source: Twitter screenshot
Later on Tuesday, the reporter questioned, "Are people truly having this much trouble distinguishing between an act of war perpetrated by foreign terrorists, and incitement of sedition perpetrated by our own president? Really? If so, American democracy is in serious trouble."
What else?
Dáte's comments were met with swift backlash on social media.
"This is legitimately insane," one commenter wrote on Twitter.
"This might be the worst take I've ever seen," another added.
Right-wing commentator Stephen L. Miller concluded, "This person is a lunatic who belongs nowhere near a job that is meant to inform people."Far-left actor Mark Ruffalo, best known for playing "The Hulk" in Disney's Marvel Cinematic Universe, apologized on Tuesday for making social media posts that accused Israel of committing "genocide" amid the conflict between the world's lone Jewish state and the terrorist group Hamas.
"I have reflected & wanted to apologize for posts during the recent Israel/Hamas fighting that suggested Israel is committing 'genocide,'" Ruffalo tweeted. "It's not accurate, it's inflammatory, disrespectful & is being used to justify antisemitism here & abroad. Now is the time to avoid hyperbole."
Ruffalo's apology follows a recent increase in hate crimes committed against Jews in the United States and abroad in the weeks of renewed conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. In several recent social media posts, Ruffalo took the Palestinians' side, comparing Israeli treatment of the Palestinians to apartheid in South Africa.
"1500 Palestinians face expulsion in #Jerusalem," Ruffalo wrote on May 11, sharing a petition that called for international sanctions against the Israeli government. "200 protesters have been injured. 9 children have been killed. Sanctions on South Africa helped free its black people – it's time for sanctions on Israel to free Palestinians. Join the call."
After 11 days of violence, with Hamas terrorists targeting Israeli civilians with rocket attacks and the Israeli Defense Forces responding with airstrikes in Gaza, Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire last Friday. Palestinian officials reported that 248 people were killed in Gaza, including women and children. On the Israeli side, 13 people were killed — a seemingly disproportionate number of casualties that can be attributed to Israel's Iron Dome defense system protecting Israelis while Hamas fighters position tunnels, rocket launchers, and command and control infrastructure in close proximity to Palestinian civilians.
It is unclear when Ruffalo shared a social media post accusing Israel of "genocide", but after his apology a vocal segment of his 7.5 million followers on social media accused him of moderating his support for the Palestinians. Some suggested that Disney, which owns Marvel Studios, forced him to make an apology.
While Disney's involvement is pure speculation, it would not be the first time the House of Mouse cracked down on one of its stars for controversial social media posts. In February, Disney fired "The Mandalorian" actress Gina Carano after a social media campaign demanded she lose her job for making a controversial Instagram post that compared censorship of conservative points of view and cancel culture to the Holocaust.
Ruffalo posting that Israel is committing "genocide" is at least as controversial as Carano's Holocaust post. But Disney has not yet responded to the tweet from its bigger star, at least not publicly.The Women's National Basketball Association announced Monday that it has fined Connecticut Sun head coach Curt Miller $10,000 and suspended him for one game in response to a comment he made about Las Vegas Aces star Liz Cambage during a matchup between the two teams Sunday.
What happened?
In a lengthy story posted to her Instagram following the game, Cambage excoriated Miller for making comment about her weight while allegedly trying to get a referee to make a foul call in the Sun's favor.
According to the player, Miller had yelled to the referee something along the lines of, "C'mon, she's 300 pounds."
But in her Instagram post, Cambage corrected Miller to say that she is actually 6-foot-8 and 235 pounds — and she knew that because she had allegedly just weighed herself "to be correct and get facts."
"And I'm very proud of being a big b***h," she noted.
"I will never let a man disrespect me, ever, ever, ever, especially a little white one," Cambage said, adding later in the video, "So don't ever try to disrespect me or another woman in the league."
Liz Cambage calls out Curt Miller for talking about her weight www.youtube.com
"You're so lucky that it was during a game," said Cambage who then threatened before continuing — apparently without any sense of irony — to do exactly what she alleged Miller to have done to her by body-shaming him.
"To that little man, like whole little, tiny — like 'where is you?' — stop trying to protect your insecurities," she said. "Pick up the phone, call the psych, 'cause you're projecting some bulls**t right now."
What else?
Miller, who also serves as general manager of the Sun, acknowledged and apologized for the comment in a statement Monday morning, according to ESPN.
"I made an inappropriate and offensive comment in reference to Liz Cambage's height and weight. I regret what I said in the heat of the moment and want to sincerely apologize to Liz and the entire Aces organization. I understand the gravity of my words and have learned from this," he said.
Miller will serve his suspension Tuesday in the Sun's game against the Seattle Storm.
Anything else?
The Sun's new president, Jennifer Rizzotti, also issued a statement Monday night on behalf the team, saying, "In no way do we condone any behavior or speech that is disparaging towards another person. Curt has apologized for his mistake and understands the gravity of his words."
In the Instagram video, Cambage differentiated Miller's comment from trash talk that often occurs between players during a game.
"But for a coach for another team, to be yelling, like, protected abuse. Because we can't do nothing back. It's just crazy to me," she said.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) admitted Monday that journalists — other than his brother, CNN anchor Chris Cuomo — routinely give him advice, triggering questions about the ethical implications of journalists cultivating cozy relationships with a powerful politician.
What did Cuomo say?
While speaking on Long Island, the scandal-embattled Democratic governor defended fielding advice from his brother, Chris — who did not previously disclose he was advising his governor brother — and revealed journalists advise him "all the time."
"I had conversations with my brother. I always have conversations with my brother because he's my brother and he's my best friend," Cuomo said, in response to the New York Post.
"Obviously, he was aware of what was going on and I talked to him about it, and he told me his thoughts. He always tells me his thoughts. Sometimes I follow them, sometimes I don't," he added, before claiming, "He was not covering the story. He had recused himself from the story."
That's when Cuomo admitted his brother is not the only journalist advising him.
"But I talk to journalists about situations all the time and they tell me their thoughts and their advice," Cuomo said.
Cuomo, however, did not identify the journalists who purportedly advise him, nor did he disclose which news outlets employ them.
What are the ethical implications?
Cuomo's admission suggests there are journalists regularly violating media ethics, either by actively working in politics through advising Cuomo or by engaging in a conflict of interest.
Tom Jones of the journalism institute Poynter noted, "It seems fairly evident that journalists helping politicians is crossing a line."
In fact, the Society of Professional Journalists' code of ethics says, "Avoid conflicts of interest, real or perceived. Disclose unavoidable conflicts," while the Associated Press advises its employees, "Editorial employees are expected to be scrupulous in avoiding any political activity, whether they cover politics regularly or not."
Was Chris Cuomo disciplined?
Despite the blaring conflict of interest, CNN did not discipline Cuomo for not disclosing to CNN viewers that he was advising Gov. Cuomo regarding his sexual harassment scandal.
The Washington Post first reported on Cuomo's ethical blunder.
"Chris has not been involved in CNN's extensive coverage of the allegations against Governor Cuomo — on air or behind the scenes," CNN said in a statement. "In part because, as he has said on his show, he could never be objective. But also because he often serves as a sounding board for his brother."
"However, it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the Governor's staff, which Chris acknowledges," the statement added. "He will not participate in such conversations going forward."
For his part, Chris Cuomo only apologized for putting his CNN colleagues "in a bad spot," but did not apologize to CNN viewers for not disclosing the fact that he was advising his brother.
"I understand why that was a problem for CNN," Cuomo said. "It will not happen again. It was a mistake, because I put my colleagues here, who I believe are the best in the business, in a bad spot. I never intended for that. I would never intend for that. And I am sorry for that."Republican senators on Tuesday introduced a resolution to condemn the recent rise in hateful violence committed against American Jews and denounce "poisonous rhetoric" from progressive lawmakers who have spoken out against Israel amid renewed conflict in the Middle East.
Sens. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), and 11 of their GOP colleagues co-sponsored the resolution, which condemns hatred and violence against Jews at home and around the world and denounces recent anti-Israel rhetoric from Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), Cori Bush (D-Mo.), and Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), though those progressive lawmakers are not named.
"In recent weeks, Jewish people in the United States have been threatened and physically assaulted in nearly 200 documented attacks since the start of the most recent conflict between Israel and Palestine," the Republicans said in a press statement.
"The horrific spike in anti-Semitic violence and crimes in the United States and around the world serves as reminder that hateful rhetoric and lies can quickly turn into violence," Rubio said. "We must be very clear that this ancient evil has no place in our society and ensure America's Jewish communities are protected."
Hawley added that "hateful anti-Israel rhetoric from politicians and the media" inspires the "sickening" violence against Jews.
"We must ensure that Jewish people receive the full protection of law owed to them as citizens of the United States," he said.
The text of the resolution cites preliminary findings from the Anti-Defamation League that found at least 193 reports of possible anti-Semitic attacks in the U.S. from May 7-14, the first week of renewed violence between Israel and Hamas. It also calls attention to several specific examples of disgusting attacks on Jews by pro-Palestinian activists in recent weeks, including incidents in New York City and Los Angeles.
The resolution also refers to and denounces recent anti-Israel statements from several Democratic members of Congress. It quotes, for example, Ilhan Omar calling Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu an ''ethno-nationalist" on the floor of the House of Representatives and a tweet she sent accusing Israel of war crimes.
Other "poisonous anti-Israel rhetoric" cited includes Rashida Tlaib's declaration that Palestinian "babies, children and their parents" were "being massacred" by Israel, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's statement describing Israel as an "apartheid state," and Cori Bush's tweet accusing Israel of "ethnic cleansing."
Further, the Republicans want the Senate to reject "the biased, incomplete, and inaccurate information promulgated by the news media in the United States about Israel and the Government of Israel's efforts to protect its citizens from terrorism."
The resolution is co-sponsored by GOP Sens. Rick Scott (Fla.), Mike Braun (Ind.), Thom Tillis (N.C.), Joni Ernst (Iowa), Ted Cruz (Texas), John Kennedy (La.), Roger Marshall (Kan.), Steve Daines (Mont.), Kevin Cramer (N.D.), Marsha Blackburn (Tenn.), Mike Crapo (Idaho), Bill Hagerty (Tenn.), and Bill Cassidy (La.).
Democratic leadership in Congress has condemned the anti-Semitic attacks against Jews, but so far remained silent on the anti-Israel statements made by Democrats in the House. Given the Democrats' apparent hesitance to condemn elected members of their own party, it is unlikely the GOP resolution will find bipartisan support in the Senate.A former female high school track star recently slammed the progressive push to allow transgender athletes to compete in women's sports, noting that her personal experience of competing against biological males had a "devastating" effect on both her confidence and collegiate opportunities.
Chelsea Mitchell, once heralded the "fastest girl in Connecticut," explained in an opinion piece published by USA Today why her and three other female athletes — who were forced to compete against transgender athletes for most of their high school careers — decided to sue the Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference last year.
In the column, Mitchell recalled the thoughts that ran through her head prior to a race she competed in last February. Though she should have been feeling "confident" and "excited," she remembered only thinking about how all her training and exercise "might not be enough, simply because there's a transgender runner on the line with an enormous physical advantage."
Amazingly, despite her obvious disadvantages, Mitchell would go on to win that race. But unfortunately that victory was an outlier for her due to the CIAC's decision to define sex by gender identity, and not biology.
"I've lost four women's state championship titles, two all-New England awards, and numerous other spots on the podium to transgender runners. I was bumped to third place in the 55-meter dash in 2019 behind two transgender runners," Mitchell recalled. "With every loss, it gets harder and harder to try again."
"That's a devastating experience," she added. "It tells me that I'm not good enough; that my body isn't good enough; and that no matter how hard I work, I am unlikely to succeed, because I'm a woman."
Later in the column, Mitchell pointed out that over and above the psychological toll that losing repeatedly to transgender athletes can have on women, CIAC's and similar policies can inflict several other "tangible harms," as well — including robbing them of the chance to compete for scholarships or race in front of scouts at high-profile meets.
"I'll never know how my own college recruitment was impacted by losing those four state championship titles," she explained. "When colleges looked at my record, they didn't see the fastest girl in Connecticut. They saw a second- or third-place runner."
Mitchell, along with Alanna Smith, Selina Soule, and Ashley Nicoletti, sued the CIAC in February 2020 for depriving them of fair competition by allowing transgender athletes to compete alongside women. Since 2017, when the organization changed its rules, two biological male athletes, Andraya Yearwood and Terry Miller, have dominated high school female track in the state.
The legal firm representing the female athletes in court, Alliance Defending Freedom, noted in a news release that Yearwood and Terry collectively "have taken 15 women's state championship titles (titles held in 2016 by nine different Connecticut girls) and have taken more than 85 opportunities to participate in higher level competitions from female track athletes in the 2017, 2018, and 2019 seasons alone."
Nonetheless, a federal district court recently dismissed the female athletes' lawsuit. In her USA Today column, Mitchell vowed to appeal.Kelley Paul, wife of Republican Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.), is no shrinking violet — and she made it perfectly clear Monday night that she and her husband will not be backing down in the face of a recent reported death threat.
If thugs and haters want to threaten her husband and family as the lawmaker continues to "stand up for our constitutionally protected liberties," they should know that the Pauls will not be intimidated — and are not afraid to exercise their Second Amendment rights.
What happened?
The Pauls received a suspicious package containing white powder and a death threat at their home Monday, the day after Sen. Paul said he would not get the COVID-19 vaccine since he has already had the disease.
The FBI and Capitol Hill police are investigating the incident and checking the package for harmful substances.
The threat to Sen. Paul, who was injured during a violent attack by his neighbor in 2017, said, "I'll finish what your neighbor started you motherf***er," and included a picture of the lawmaker in bandages with a gun pointed at his head.
Sen. Paul told Politico, "I take these threats immensely seriously. As a repeated target of violence, it is reprehensible that Twitter allows C-list celebrities to encourage violence against me and my family. Just this weekend Richard Marx called for violence against me and now we receive this powder filled letter."
The lawmaker was referring to singer Richard Marx's repeated messages on social media that he would like to "hug" Paul's neighbor and "buy him as many drinks as he can consume."
Marx defended his postings as just a "wise-crack about Rand Pauls' neighbor."
But Kelley Paul, who said it was she who received the death threat letter and called the FBI, didn't find it funny at all — and she took to Twitter to let people know exactly where she stood.
What did she say?
In fact, she's got something to say to anyone who would come against her husband and family: We're not backing down — and we are armed.
And her declaration wasn't just a message to everyday haters — she named names, calling out the Democratic Party and its operatives, celebrities like Marx and Bette Midler, and even 2019 "Teacher of the Year" Rodney Robinson, who infamously called Rand's neighbor a "true Kentucky hero" and called on Sen. Mitch McConnell's neighbors to take their "turn to step up."
"I got the death threat letter and called the FBI," Kelley Paul said. "This kind of violent threat is fomented against Rand daily by @ReallyAmerican1, a Dem PAC that pays thugs like @mmpadellan to celebrate the assault that nearly killed Rand. @DNC ignores."
"@richardmarx was inciting more violence [j]ust this weekend," she continued. "For years people like @BetteMidler have cheered Rand's horrific attack and serious injuries. The former teacher of the year @RodRobinsonRVA tweeted that Rand's attacker was a “hero" and urged Mitch McConnell's neighbors to “step up". Why is he still teaching?"
"I am sick of the hatred and vitriol from people who boast of their 'empathy and compassion' in their bios," Paul added. "Rand will continue to stand up for our constitutionally protected liberties. He will keep questioning the 'experts.'"
And then she made it clear to haters that she and her husband won't back down and are more than prepared for more attacks.
"We won't be intimidated," she said. "And yes, we have guns."Evangelical Christians in the United States have in the past been staunch supporters of Israel in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and a powerful voting bloc in American politics, generally supporting the Republican Party's pro-Israel foreign policy. But a new survey shows support for the world's lone Jewish state cratering among young evangelicals, who report having different views from their elders.
A poll commissioned by researchers at the University of North Carolina at Pembroke and administered by the Barna Group shows a sharp drop in support for Israel among evangelical Christians between the ages of 18 and 29, The Times of Israel reported Tuesday. The online poll was conducted between March and April and surveyed over 700 individuals. It had a 3.7 percentage-point margin of error with a 95% level of confidence.
Respondents were asked who they sided with in the "Israeli-Palestinian dispute." Only 33.6% of young evangelicals said they sided with Israel, 24.3% said they sided with the Palestinians, and 42.2% didn't take sides.
Support for Israel dropped precipitously from a similar survey of young evangelicals conducted by the same researchers just three years ago. In 2018, 75% of survey respondents said they sided with Israel over the Palestinians, while 22% said they sided with neither faction. A mere 2.8% expressed support for the Palestinians at the time.
On the question of two-state solution, 45% of survey respondents in the 2021 poll said they support the establishment of a Palestinian state alongside Israel, while 35.1% said they are neutral.
A plurality of young evangelicals, 41.5%, said Israel treats Palestinians fairly while over 22% said that Israel does not treat Palestinians fairly and 35.7% said they were neutral on the issue.
In a statement to the Times of Israel, UNCP professors Motti Inbari and Kirill Bumin observed that evangelical support for Israel is historically connected to a certain view of End Times theology popular in the U.S., which links the creation of the state of Israel with the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.
As such, the researchers asked young evangelicals about the relationship between their religious beliefs and their views of Israel. More than 44% of respondents said their religious beliefs do not impact their view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. More than 38% said they view Israel more favorably because of their theology and another 17.4% said their religious beliefs lead them to be more supportive of the Palestinians.
An overwhelming majority of 71.6% of young evangelicals still believe that the city of Jerusalem should forever remain Israel's capital. Only 28.4% said East Jerusalem should be partitioned off and made the capital of a future Palestinian state.
The survey asked respondents to explain the apparent changing views among the evangelical Christian community: 34% of respondents attributed shifting support for Israel on "generational difference"; 22.5% said younger evangelicals were less knowledgable about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; and 29.8% said they do not know how to account for the differences.
Nearly half of those polled admitted to having very limited or no knowledge of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The UNCP researchers also asked the survey respondents about their political leanings.
The study found that 46% of respondents reported voting for Joe Biden in the 2020 presidential election while only 26% voted for Donald Trump. Another 20% said they did not vote at all.
Just under half of respondents, 48.5%, identified as Democrats or said they leaned in favor of the Democratic Party. Another 40% identified as Republicans or Republican-leaning.
A plurality of young evangelicals, 37.5%, said they are centrist or moderate compared to 31% who identified as conservative and 31.5% who identified as liberal.Four black men carried out the attack in which prominent Black Lives Matter activist Sasha Johnson was shot in the head Sunday during a party in London, police told BBC News.
What are the details?
Detective Chief Inspector Richard Leonard, who is leading the investigation, told BBC News that about 30 guests had been at the party and that the four attackers dressed in "dark clothing" went into the garden "through a side entrance."
"In the ensuing melee a firearm has been discharged injuring Sasha," Leonard added to the network.
Johnson was taken to intensive care in critical condition, BBC News previously reported.
The Taking the Initiative Party, which Johnson helps lead, told the network that the attack followed "numerous death threats."
But police said there was no evidence yet that the attack on the 27-year-old was targeted or that she received credible threats, BBC News added.
Imarn Ayton, a friend of the victim, told the network she did not believe Johnson "was the intended victim."
"As far as I am aware ... this incident is more related to rival gangs as opposed to her activism," Ayton added to BBC News.
Detective Chief Inspector Jimi Tele said: "This was a shocking incident that has left a young woman with very serious injuries. Our thoughts are with her family who are being provided with support at this terribly difficult time," according to the network.
'The police is no different from the KKK'
As it happens, Johnson was caught on video last year giving a speech during which she noted that "the police is no different from the KKK."
She also said police "stand around and protect statues and buildings instead of people" and that "we need a black militia."
"We need our own political party," Johnson also declared, adding that the "back of racism is capitalism."
Content warning: Language:
Oxford Black Lives Matter Sasha calls for black militia - compares Police to the KKK youtu.be
What else do we know about Johnson?
Black Lives Matters UK said it was shocked by the shooting of "a young mother and fearless political campaigner who was at the forefront of many BLM protests last summer," BBC News said — and that while Johnson isn't part of BLM UK, "she impressively founded a new Black-led political party and was dedicated to resist anti-Black racism."
The group added that "any attempt to intimidate or silence her is an attack on all of us," the network reported.Glenn Beck was called a conspiracy theorist, among other names, for his warning years ago that the anti-Jewish hatred of the 1930s in Europe would one day return and that it could come to America's streets. Well, it looks like that day has arrived. Over the past week, multiple violent attacks against Jews have occurred in the United States.
On the radio program Monday, Glenn detailed several recent, horrifying attacks against Jews in New York City — one of which involved two teenage boys chased by a Palestinian supporter wielding a baseball bat. In another attack, a mob reportedly threatened to kill a pro soccer player if he admitted he was Jewish.
Glenn said "now is the time" to stand with our Jewish brethren against the evils that we're seeing in our own nation. We — and our churches — must stand with our Jewish brothers and sisters.
"There are attacks on our Jewish friends and neighbors and they are afraid because they've seen this movie before," Glenn said. "I know how to stop this movie. Here's how you do it: You remember what you actually believe — that all men are created equal. All men are created equal. And even if you don't like or you disagree with a person, you stand for their rights because you are a brother to them. It is our responsibility.
"Our churches are being indoctrinated now with critical race theory," he added. "They're being taken down, one by one, with wokeness. All in the name of 'tolerance.' You cannot cross lines. If you don't stand up for people who are being chased in the streets, if you don't, as a church, stand up, you will find yourself on the wrong side. This is becoming a final warning, soon."
Watch the video clip below to hear more from Glenn:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.John Cena, the WWE star-turned actor, was bashed online Tuesday after he posted a video to Chinese social media network Sina Weibo apologizing to the Chinese people for referring to Taiwan as a "country."
Oh, and Cena delivered his mea culpa in Mandarin, the official language of China.
What happened?
While promoting the release of "F9" — the latest installment in the "Fast & Furious" franchise — Cena told Taiwanese broadcaster TVBS that Taiwan would "be the first country to see Fast & Furious 9."
The problem with Cena's statement, according to communist China, is that he acknowledged Taiwan as a sovereign country separate of China. The communist government claims Taiwan as its territory, but Taiwan claims to be a sovereign, self-governing republic. Conflict over Taiwan's status stems from the 20th century Chinese civil war, which has never technically ended.
Taiwan's independence, unfortunately, is mostly unacknowledged on the world stage — most countries have not established official diplomatic relations with Taiwan — and China aggressively polices speech regarding Taiwan. The communist government considers the recognition of Taiwan's sovereignty as crossing the proverbial "line in the sand."
What did Cena say?
Uploading a video to China's Twitter-like social media platform Sina Wiebo, Cena profusely apologized — although it was not good enough for many Chinese people.
"Hello, China. This is John Cena. I did many, many interviews for Fast & Furious 9. In one of the interviews I made a mistake," Cena said, according to Newsweek.
"I love and respect China and Chinese people. I'm very, very sorry for my mistake. Sorry, sorry. I'm very sorry," he added. "You must understand I love and respect China and Chinese people. Sorry. Goodbye."
The video was reportedly flooded with thousands of comments from Chinese users who thought Cena's apology was not sufficient.
"Please say in Chinese, 'Taiwan is part of China,' otherwise we won't accept [your apology]," the top comment on the video said, Newsweek reported.
"Then at least say Taiwan is China's. You're avoiding the issue and talking nonsense. You can't benefit from [the Chinese market] and trash it at the same time," another critic said.
The movie debuted in China last Friday, Newsweek reported.
What was the reaction?
Cena's capitulation to communist China's claim about Taiwan triggered an avalanche of backlash for the Hollywood star.Steven Crowder reflects on the fiery riots that began a year ago in response to the police involved death of George Floyd. Also, Seth Rogan doesn't seem to understand comedy, and Joe Biden doesn't seem to understand words. That and more on today's episode of "Louder with Crowder."
You must be a BlazeTV subscriber to watch the LIVE show as Crowder will not be on YouTube. Watch here.
Want more from Pat Gray?
To enjoy more of Pat's biting analysis and signature wit as he restores common sense to a senseless world, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Isn't it so nice of these criminals who are willing to serve their community by getting vaccinated? That should be grounds to lop off half their already lenient sentence of community service.
This might sound like another sadistic joke, but it is the reality for two Georgia counties. Georgia's Hall and Dawson counties are now offering those performing community service as part of their sentence to receive earned time for getting vaccinated.
Hall County Court Administrator Jason Stephenson told local media that judges can offer up to 20 to 40 hours' worth of community service for who show proof of vaccination.
"In our judge's view, every shot in the arm is a service to the community," Stephenson said. "For some offenders it does seem appropriate to recognize that the time and the cost involved and perhaps lining up childcare, taking time off from work, arranging for transportation, and making to a vaccination site – not once but twice. This recognizes the commitment they've made in doing that."
Yes, I mean can you imagine the sacrifice it takes for these criminals to be willing to be vaccinated. Andy Maddox, senior assistant public defender of Hall County, aptly described the amazing self-sacrifice and why it should count toward community service time.
"Somebody mentions 20 hours and that may not sound like a lot," Maddox said, "but that half a work week and if somebody can get a shot instead of doing 20 hours of community service, that is a pretty strong incentive."
It's hard to tell if these sentiments demonstrate how dangerous the vaccine is or how callous we are in dealing with criminals, or both. Remember, judges have already released hundreds of thousands of criminals due to COVID jailbreak, and countless others have never been locked up because of COVID-19. Now the vaccine is being used as a backend leniency to both line the pockets of big pharma and to go easy on criminals, two pastimes of our corrupt ruling class.
Some media reports have observed that Georgia's vaccination rate is about 10 points lower than the national average, however, there is no evidence that Georgia is suffering any worse community spread than any of its neighbors. So many states in the northeast or upper Midwest have much higher vaccination rates than Georgia, yet they have more community spread, according to CDC's latest tracking map. Minnesota ranks #11 in terms of percent of the residents vaccinated, but it is currently one of the hot spots.
Clearly, it's herd immunity and seasonal/geographic patters, not vaccination rates that are driving the waning months of this pandemic. However, that won't stop governments from violating all laws and social norms to obsessively promote the experimental vaccines.
Maryland and Ohio residents can register for a lottery if they receive a vaccine. In New York, anyone who gets vaccinated will receive a $20 lottery ticket for the $5 million Mega Multiplier Lottery as part of the "Vax & Scratch" program.
These people have lied to us about every aspect of this virus – from the origins and methods of transmission to social distancing and masking. Are we really supposed to believe their narrative regarding vaccines when they are acting this capriciously in getting people to take the shots?A 71-year-old Asian and Latino man told KGO-TV he was grabbing a trash can from the curb in Oakland, California, last Wednesday when he noticed a car near the driveway.
So he asked the car's driver to move, the station said — and things got ugly.
What are the details?
The man — who didn't want to use his name — told KGO that upon making his request, a woman "pulled me from my back" and "pushed me toward the car."
Image source: KGO-TV video screenshot
The woman allegedly tried to steal the man's wallet and cellphone; and when that didn't work out, the man told the station "she bit me on my hand." Apparently the brutal act was meant to distract the victim, who told KGO the assailant "grabbed my neck and she pulled my necklace and took it."
The man told police he fell upon the vehicle — and was then dragged facedown for 10 to 20 feet, the station said.
Besides receiving cuts and bruises, the man lost seven teeth as a result of the attack, KGO reported.
"I love Oakland ... but not anymore," he told the station. During the interview, the man's hand shook while clutching a cane to support his already weakened legs.
Image source: KGO-TV video screenshot
'No one stopped'
A woman named Linda told KGO she and others saw the attack — but that she was the only person who helped the man.
Linda told the station that while the victim was "lying in the middle of the street" other drivers "just went around him and kept going. That was the thing that was the most shocking. No one stopped."
The man told KGO he wanted Linda to know how much he appreciates her help: "For being a good Samaritan to me ... I will forever be grateful to her."
And he added to the station that despite his fear, he felt the need to speak out: "I hope people will become more aware this is something happening right now. It's been happening for many years."
Anything else?
The victim's medical costs, including what's needed for dental implants, are mounting, KGO reported, adding that those who would like to contribute can do so through the nonprofit Oakland Chinatown Chamber Foundation which is handling the man's case as well as cases for other victims. Donations can be sent to 388-9th Street #290, Oakland CA 94607 or through their online PayPal site, the station said.A suspicious package containing white powder was reportedly delivered to the Kentucky home of Republican Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.) on Monday.
According to Politico, which first broke the news Monday evening, the FBI and Capitol Hill police are now investigating the incident and examining the large envelope for harmful substances.
In a statement to the news outlet, Paul took aim at pop rock recording artist Richard Marx, whom the lawmaker claimed incited violence against him on social media just one day before the package was delivered.
"I take these threats immensely seriously," he said. "As a repeated target of violence, it is reprehensible that Twitter allows C-list celebrities to encourage violence against me and my family. Just this weekend Richard Marx called for violence against me and now we receive this powder filled letter."
In a tweet posted Sunday, the "Don't Mean Nothing" singer re-upped an offer on Twitter to buy drinks for Paul's neighbor, Rene Boucher, who violently assaulted Paul in 2017.
"I'll say it again," he wrote. "If I ever meet Rand Paul's neighbor I'm going to hug him and buy him as many drinks as he can consume."
In November 2017, Boucher tackled Paul from behind while he was mowing his lawn, causing the senator to suffer multiple fractured ribs. Boucher — who claimed the attack was not politically motivated but the result of a dispute over piles of tree limbs near his property — was eventually sentenced to 30 days in prison.
Fox News later reported that on the package was a picture of a bandaged Paul with a gun pointed at his head and the following quote: "I'll finish what your neighbor started you motherf***er"
Following some backlash, Marx defended his tweet as nothing more than a "wise-crack about Rand Paul's neighbor."
In a sarcastic response to another critic on Twitter, Marx wrote, "Yeah ... I'm the only person on Twitter who's ever referenced Rand Paul's neighbor. Must have been me."
The progressive singer-songwriter, who often tweets about politics to his roughly 300,000 followers, also mentioned the fact that Paul had enraged critics recently by announcing that he would not receive the coronavirus vaccine.
During a radio interview on Sunday, Paul suggested, "Until they show me evidence that people who have already had the infection are dying in large numbers, or being hospitalized or getting very sick, I just made my own personal decision that I'm not getting vaccinated because I've already had the disease and I have natural immunity."
The comments immediately sparked fury as a wide range of detractors lambasted the lawmaker online, including one who called him the "Senate's village idiot."Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez revealed recently that she is attending therapy because of the deadly riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, claiming in a radio interview that members of Congress essentially "served in war."
What did AOC say?
During an interview with Latino USA, Ocasio-Cortez called the events of Jan. 6 "extraordinarily traumatizing" and likened her experience to that of losing her father at a young age.
"After the 6th, I took some time and it was really [Rep.] Ayanna Pressley when I explained to her what happened to me, like the day of, because I ran to her office, and she was like, 'you need to recognize trauma and that this is something that you went through, but we're all going through,'" Ocasio-Cortez said.
"I feel like I learned this the hard way after my father had passed away when I was a teenager," she added. "That happened at a young age and I socked it away. I had to live with that for years."
When asked if she is "doing therapy," Ocasio-Cortez answered affirmatively, claiming former President Donald Trump left the Latino community on edge.
"Oh yeah, I'm doing therapy but also I've just slowed down," she said. "I think the Trump administration had a lot of us, especially Latino communities, in a very reactive mode."
In February, Ocasio-Cortez said she thought she "was going to die" during the Capitol riot.
What about Jan. 6?
Ocasio-Cortez went on to claim in the radio interview that "60 seconds could have meant potentially the difference between what we have right now and a martial state."
For those who disagree with her analysis of Jan 6., Ocasio-Cortez attributed pushback to "protection of mythology."
"I think the attacks on the right are about. There are certain mythologies that are really important to this idea of American exceptionalism," Ocasio-Cortez said. "But there's also certain mythologies that are very important to maintaining white supremacy; white supremacy in and of itself is a mythology. And you have to protect it in order to protect that political power, which has now become a very important base in the Republican Party. And that's why that response was so vociferous — to make it seem that it wasn't as bad as it was, and it was bad.
"There are things that happened that day that if 60 seconds went differently, if a different door was opened, if a chair wasn't barricaded in a certain way, we could have a completely different reality right now," she added.A Maryland man has been charged with attempted murder and other counts after he allegedly crashed his vehicle into a police station "intentionally" and tried to hit officers with his car after first calling to tell the department he was going to kill an officer.
What are the details?
Police in the Havre de Grace suburb of Baltimore say Timothy Joel Jackson Kahl, 24, called the department and threatened to kill an officer on Sunday, before going on a rampage with his vehicle that ended with the car smashing through the department's headquarters.
Following the threatening phone call, officers were dispatched to Kahl's residence, which is less than one mile from the station.
"When officers went to make contact with him he tried to run them over with his vehicle several times," the Havre de Grace Police Department said in a statement. "He then fled the scene and drove straight to the Havre de Grace Police Department and drove his vehicle through the front doors of the station into the lobby."
Video footage shared by WJZ-TV shows the moment the vehicle crashed through the front doors of headquarters.
At some point before driving into the station building, Kahl allegedly hit some of his neighbors' vehicles. Two of the neighbors whose property was damaged spoke with WJZ, saying they were just grateful no people were hurt in the rampage.
After ramming into the station, Kahl exited his vehicle and tried to attack officers again before he was tased, arrested, and taken to the hospital, authorities said.
The Daily Mail reported that "Kahl was charged with two counts of first-degree attempted murder, two counts of first-degree assault, reckless endangerment and three counts of malicious destruction of property with a value greater than $1,000."
The suspect's mother says he suffers from mental illness. It is unclear whether or not he sustained any injuries from Sunday's events.Far-left Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) introduced legislation Monday that would nearly triple the current budget of the Internal Revenue Service, in order to "crack down" on "wealthy tax cheats" in the U.S.
What are the details?
Warren's office said in a news release that her bill, Restoring the IRS Act of 2021, "would provide the IRS with the resources it needs to crack down on tax dodging by the rich and corporations." The release states that the aim of the bill is to "stop wealthy tax cheats and close the tax gap."
"For too long, the wealthiest Americans and big corporations have been able to use lawyers, accountants, and lobbyists to avoid paying their fair share — and budget cuts have hollowed out the IRS so it doesn't have the resources to go after wealthy tax cheats," Warren said in a statement. "The IRS should have more — and more stable — resources to do its job, and my bill would do just that."
The senator's proposal would increase the IRS's budget to $31.5 billion, which is almost three times as much as its current budget of $11.9 billion.
The Hill reported that the IRS hit its peak budget level in 2010. After adjusting for inflation, according to the outlet, Warren's bill would more than double the 2010 budgetary figure.
What else?
Beyond bolstering the IRS's budget, Warren's bill would add additional reporting requirements for banks to disclose activities of their clients.
It would further require the tax collection agency "to create a plan, and report annually on implementation progress, to shift audits towards high-income, high-wealth tax filers and corporations."
If made into law, the bill would also increase tax penalties for underpayment on taxpayers with income above $2 million, and apply the False Claims Act — additional charges for allegedly lying to the government — to taxpayers who earn more than $10 million who have a misstatement on their return.
The IRS would also have to "conduct an analysis of racial disparities in the agency's enforcement activity."Sean Ono Lennon, the son of John Lennon and Yoko Ono, offered a scathing assessment of the overreach of political correctness in a series of tweets on Sunday.
Lennon argued that pushing too far on political correctness has resulted in a racist backlash that has made the problem of racial relations worse.
"When I was young ppl used to say racist s*** about Asians around me all the time and then be like 'Oh sorry! But you're not reeeally Asian so…' and I think they sincerely thought that would make me feel better," Lennon tweeted.
"I'm not exactly sure why I brought that up but I think it's because I want to say that I grew up in a time when there was zero political correctness. I literally saw political correctness being invented right in front of me (at certain schools) and then distributed and eventually enforced as a mindset and ideology," he explained.
He went on to say that political correctness might have helped push back on racism but that it might have ushered society into an era where the medicine is worse than the disease.
"We've been trying this kind of morality policing for awhile now & I would posit things are arguably getting worse. Race relations seem to be in the middle of a 'two steps back' moment," he tweeted.
Lennon, 45, then made a controversial statement that no longer fits with the left-wing "woke" movement.
"I am very sad that I feel like I have to say the following but here goes: Asians are not the problem. Blacks are not the problem. Jews are not the problem. And yes, Whites are not the problem either," Lennon said.
I am very sad that I feel like I have to say the following but here goes: Asians are not the problem. Blacks are not the problem. Jews are not the problem. And yes, Whites are not the problem either. No race or culture is 'the problem.'
— Sean Ono Lennon (@seanonolennon) May 23, 2021
"No race or culture is 'the problem,'" he added.
"I have lived in many cities and countries and I can say from experience that there is an EQUAL distribution of s***ty ppl and good ppl in EVERY human population. Most are good, some aren't great, and a very small number are clinical sociopaths you absolutely need to avoid," Lennon continued.
He also said that he saw evidence that Americans were self segregating along "tribal lines" in a way he had not seen before.
"I am simply saying we should check our strategy if we are not getting the results we intended. I don't know what the solution is, but I suspect that over sensitizing ppl to arbitrary characteristics like skin colour may be doing more harm than good," he added.
Lennon's Twitter tirade drew applause from many critics of the current "pc police" craze, while others were disappointed in his unwillingness to join the left-wing political movement.
Here's more about political correctness overreach:Evelyn Yang excoriated the New York Daily News for publishing what she called a "racist disfiguration" of her husband, New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang.
The cartoon by Bill Bramhall mocked Yang with the common criticism that he wasn't enough of a true New Yorker by representing him as a tourist visiting Times Square.
The cartoon was a reference to Yang saying in an interview that Times Square was his favorite subway station, something many New Yorkers saw as an opinion held only by tourists.
"I can't believe my eyes. To publish this racist disfiguration of @AndrewYang as a tourist, in NYC where I was born, where Andrew has lived for 25 years, where our boys were born, where 16% of us are Asian and anti-Asian hate is up 900%," she responded.
She added a statement from the Asian American and Pacific Islander Victory Alliance denouncing Bramhall's cartoon and the New York Daily News.
"This is disgusting and wrong. Every single day Asian Americans have to fight the notion that we are foreigners. We are here and we're not going anywhere. That's why AAPI representation like @andrewyang is so important," the group said.
Evelyn Yang continued in a second tweet comparing the cartoon to an overtly racist cartoon depiction of a stereotypical Asian person.
Which one is from 2021 pic.twitter.com/toNDJkHsH6
— Evelyn Yang (@EvelynYang) May 24, 2021
Yang is the front-runner in the mayoral race but he faces stiff competition from Eric Adams, a Brooklyn borough president and retired cop. Two other candidates in the mayoral race were mocked and ridiculed when they were woefully unprepared to answer what the cost of an average house or apartment is in New York City.
The election for the Democratic primary of the New York City mayoral race will be held June 22.
Here's the interview where Yang made the Times Square gaffe:Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer (D) has lifted her own restrictions on social distancing at restaurants after she was caught over the weekend violating the rule that had limited restaurant seating to parties of six or less.
What are the details?
On Saturday, Breitbart released a photo showing Whitmer and her chief operations officer sitting with a dozen or so people at an East Lansing bar in clear violation of the restrictions the governor set in place for all Michiganders.
As TheBlaze previously reported, Whitmer had just updated her own COVID guidance a week prior to violating the order, prohibiting intermingling by groups of people and dictating that no more than six individuals may sit at the same table in restaurants.
After the photo of Whitmer went viral, the governor issued an apology for ignoring her own rules, saying in a statement released Sunday:
"Throughout the pandemic, I've been committed to following public health protocols. Yesterday, I went with friends to a local restaurant. As more people arrived, the tables were pushed together. Because we were all vaccinated, we didn't stop to think about it. In retrospect, I should have thought about it. I am human. I made a mistake, and I apologize."
Then, on Monday, the governor lifted the rule, but suggested she had already been considering getting rid of it prior to the bad press.
WWMT-TV reporter Rachel Louise Just tweeted:
"Today, Whitmer rescinded the rules that limited the number of people at a table to 6, a rule she was seen breaking over the weekend. I asked about how long she's been considering that rule change - she said it's been in the works long before last weekend."
Anything else?
Since the emergence of the coronavirus in the U.S., Whitmer earned a reputation for being among the most heavy-handed governors in the nation when it came to imposing restrictions on citizens and businesses.
But even before the bar photo the Democrat had been accused multiple times of hypocrisy in flouting her own COVID-19 guidance.
Just last month, it emerged that the governor took a private jet to Florida on a personal trip to see her ailing father — despite blaming travel to Florida for high rates of infection in Michigan at the time.
She also broke her own executive order when she violated social distancing rules while attending a George Floyd march.
In May 2020, Whitmer's husband allegedly tried to use her position as governor to gain preferential treatment to get his boat in the water at their vacation home, after the governor warned folks not to travel to the area due to the pandemic.After facing the ire of the leftist woke mob for announcing her tequila business endeavor, Kendall Jenner is facing a renewed onslaught of criticism over new video advertisements for the brand.
Jenner is being branded a racist guilty of cultural appropriation for riding a horse, sipping her tequila in a truck, and wearing a cotton shirt, jeans, and a cowboy hat.
Here's one of the video ads from the brand's Instagram page:
Detractors took to social media to blast Jenner for appropriating "chic migrant worker" fashion.
"YOU'VE GOT TO BE KIDDING ME.....leave it to Kendall to be as tone deaf as possible, this is so offensive," tweeted one critic.
"Modeling that chic migrant worker look for her tequila brand, watch her cry and say she didn't know later on for the 100th time," they added.
"Kendall jenner can go to hell with this blatant explotation of the stereotypes of indigenous women from mexico," claimed another detractor.
"Kendall Jenner coming out with her 'own' tequila is ultimate modern day colonizer vibes," read another tweet.
"Why can't Kendall Jenner just show up as her white girl self to sell Tequila?! Why does she have to go and put on the braids, and wear the sombrero," said another critic.
Others defended Jenner, saying that she didn't do anything worse than other celebrities who weren't as criticized for launching their own tequila brands.
Jenner faced similar accusations when she announced her tequila endeavor in February. Some were even angry that the "818" name of the tequila referred not to anything Mexican, but the area code for her hometown in Southern California.
Here's more about the launch of Jenner's tequila brand:Far-left network CNN announced over the weekend that it has "parted ways" with conservative contributor Rick Santorum, following uproar over comments he made about Native Americans in a recent speech.
What are the details?
HuffPost was first to report Saturday that CNN "terminated" its contract with Santorum, a former Republican senator, amid calls to fire him over comments he made during a speech for Young America's Foundation.
"If you think of other countries like Italy, Greece and China, and Turkey and places like that, they've all sort of changed over time, I mean, they've been there for millennia, in many cases, and their culture has sort of evolved over time," Santorum told the audience.
"But not us! We came here, and created a blank slate, we birthed a nation, from nothing," he continued. "I mean, there was nothing here. I mean, yes we have Native Americans but candidly there isn't much Native American culture in American culture."
The remarks drew furious condemnation online — including from one of his CNN colleagues who called him a "white supremacist."
Santorum responded to the initial backlash with a brief statement, saying, "I had no intention of minimizing or in any way devaluing Native American culture."
The senior political commentator was then confronted about his comments during an appearance on "Cuomo Prime Time," where he told host Chris Cuomo that he "misspoke," explaining, "I was talking about the founding, and the principles embodied embodied in the founding."
"I would never, and you know, people have said, 'Oh, I'm trying to dismiss what we did to the Native Americans,'" Santorum continued. "Far from it! The way we treated Native Americans was horrific. It goes against every bone and everything I've ever fought for, as a leader, in the Congress."
One CNN executive told HuffPost that Santorum's response on Cuomo's show was the nail in the coffin for ending his tenure with the liberal network.
"Leadership wasn't particularly satisfied with that appearance," the executive told the outlet. "None of the anchors wanted to book him, so he was essentially benched anyway."
Anything else?
In a story acknowledging that it had "parted ways" with Santorum, CNN pointed out two other conservative pundits who exited the network "amid controversy."
Former Reagan staffer Jeffrey Lord was let go from the network in 2017 after controversially tweeting the words, "Sieg Heil!" at a liberal activist. Lord said that his message was misunderstood, and that he was mocking fascists, rather than glorifying Nazis as he had been accused by critics.
Then in 2018, CNN pulled the plug on former George W. Bush staffer Paris Dennard over allegations that he was terminated from Arizona State University "for making sexually explicit comments and gestures toward women."
Dennard told the Washington Post that the allegations against him were "false," saying in a statement, "It is sadly another politically motivated attempt to besmirch my character, and shame me into silence for my support of President Trump and the GOP."The father of the 4-year-old boy found murdered in the middle of a Dallas street explained why he left his twin boys with his girlfriend after growing public scrutiny.
Cash Gernon was found laying in a pool of blood by a jogger on the early morning on May 16. Police later arrested 18-year-old Darriynn Brown as a suspect in the murder.
One of the immediate mysteries arising out of the case was why the boy and his twin brother were not with his parents but instead living at the home of an unrelated guardian identified as Monica Sherrod.
On Sunday, the boy's father posted a video statement to the YouTube page of his sister in order to explain the circumstances surrounding the death of his son.
"I'll start by clarifying my absence," Trevor Gernon said.
"I knew Monica for a few good years before moving to the Dallas area. She was a single parent like me, so naturally I would ask her advice on local things. At the end of February, beginning of March, Monica offered her home and help, which i was thankful for, being a single dad with twin 4-years-olds can be overwhelming from time to time," he explained.
"When I decided to move back to Houston, after an unsuccessful job hunt amongst other things, I felt it was in the boys' best interest to not disrupt their routine. They were comfortable, they were around other kids, and from what it appeared, Monica was a trustworthy person," he added.
"This choice I made with the best of intentions has resulted in the most horrific outcome. I have paid the most ultimate, painful price for my poor judgment, and I have to live with this devastation every single day. I will never forgive myself," he said. "This is a nightmare that doesn't go away when I open my eyes in the morning."
The father also addressed the boy's mother, Melinda Seagroves. She has claimed that the father ran off with the children and that she has been trying to locate them for months.
"Mindy, I am so sorry that I failed to keep him safe. That is my job as a dad, and I was not able to do that and I'm sorry," he said emotionally. "To make matters worse, I have to fear for my freedom as it is the goal of some to see me go to jail rather than grieve the loss of my little boy. All I want to do is have that one thing that every parent deserves to say goodbye and be with my son one last time."
Harrowing surveillance video caught the moment that Brown allegedly snuck into the room where Gernon was sleeping and snatched him from his crib. Another video shows the same man allegedly attempting to kidnap the boy's twin brother, but then run off without him.
Brown has been charged with kidnapping and burglary, but police say more charges could be added depending on the results of forensic tests.
The video of the father's statement shuffles through images of the father with his two boys.As pro-Palestinian activists engage in a rising wave of attacks against American Jews, some progressive lawmakers who have criticized Israel are condemning the anti-Semitic violence but also are suggesting without evidence there is a concurrent rise in Islamophobia since violence renewed between Israel and Hamas.
Recent high-profile anti-Semitic attacks in New York City and Los Angeles in the last two weeks have called national attention to a rising wave of hate crimes committed against Jews.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), an outspoken critic of Israel, on Friday condemned "disturbing antisemitic attacks and a troubling rise in Islamophobia."
"If you are committed to a future of equality and peaceful coexistence, please stand united against anyone who promotes hatred of any kind," Sanders tweeted.
Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) shared Sanders' tweet with a quote from Martin Luther King Jr. and said, "We won't be free if we come from a place of hate + violence + racism."
The Anti-Defamation League last week reported a 47% increase from the previous week in online and real-world incidents of anti-Semitism in the United States. The ADL said there were 193 reports of possible anti-Semitic attacks in the U.S. from May 7-14, up from 131 incidents reported the week prior.
Examples of the hateful incidents include at least one Jewish individual who was beaten by a pro-Palestinian mob in Los Angeles and a group of around 20 pro-Palestinian protesters in Skokie, Illinois, who chanted "Intifada!" and "From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free" across the street from Temple Beth Israel synagogue.
An ADL analysis of Twitter found more than 17,000 tweets that used variations of the phrase, "Hitler was right" in the same time period.
"As the violence between Israel and Hamas continues to escalate, we are witnessing a dangerous and drastic surge in anti-Jewish hate right here at home," ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt said. "We are tracking acts of harassment, vandalism and violence as well as a torrent of online abuse. It's happening around the world — from London to Los Angeles, from France to Florida, in big cities like New York and in small towns, and across every social media platform.
"To those who choose to indulge in age-old antisemitic tropes, exaggerated claims and inflammatory rhetoric, it has consequences: attacks in real life on real people targeted for no other reason than they are Jewish," Greenblatt said. "This is antisemitism, plain and simple. And it's indisputably inexcusable in any context."
Though Sanders indicated there was an equivalency between rising anti-Semitic hate and Islamophobia, there does not appear to be data showing a rise in Islamophobic incidents in the past two weeks.
Other progressive lawmakers spoke out against anti-Semitism and hate crimes.
"We will never, ever tolerate antisemitism here in NY or anywhere in the world. The recent surge in attacks is horrifying. We stand with our Jewish communities in condemning this violence," Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said, who earlier that week called Israel an "apartheid state."
Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) said the attack at the Los Angeles restaurant was "horrific and unacceptable."
"Nobody should face threats and harassment based on their religion or ethnicity," she tweeted. "This has to stop."A 40-year-old man was found dead inside a large papier-mâché dinosaur statue in Spain after being reported missing by his family only hours earlier, multiple Spanish outlets reported over the weekend.
The man, whose identity has been protected, was discovered when a father and son who frequent the area alerted police after noticing a foul smell and seeing what they perceived to be a human leg through a crack in the statue, local news outlet La Vanguardia reported.
When firefighters arrived on the scene, they were forced to cut the statue open in order to remove the man's corpse.
The Stegosaurus statue, which had been constructed as an advertisement for a since-closed movie theater, is located in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, a suburb of Barcelona.
A video posted to Twitter by Spanish media outlet El Mirall.net shows firefighters using a crane to approach the statue from above while others on the ground appear to use an electric saw to cut at its leg.
Catalonia police, called the Mossos d'Esquadra, reported to La Vanguardia that there were no "indications of criminality" in relation to the incident and that they were awaiting an autopsy to officially determine the cause of the man's death.
According to local reports, police, initially suspecting the man to be homeless, believed that he had crawled into the statue to spend the night before getting trapped.
But upon learning that a missing persons report had been filed, police ruled out the possibility that the man was homeless. They now posit that he may have somehow dropped his cellphone inside the statue before flipping upside down and getting stuck trying to retrieve it.
Citing El Periódico, Newsweek reported that the man's family reported him missing after he had been away from them for two days.
The dinosaur, which was the last of several promotional decorations on display nearby the theater, has reportedly been removed from the area.Prosecutors said a Brooklyn man accused of beating up a Jewish man in a hate attack in midtown Manhattan last week — in which he allegedly called the victim a "dirty Jew" — declared from his jail cell that he would "do it again," the New York Post reported.
What are the details?
The Post said Waseem Awawdeh, 23, was held on $10,000 bail in connection to the Thursday attack and is accused of punching, kicking, and pepper-spraying 29-year-old Joseph Borgen — as well as beating the victim with crutches.
"If I could do it again, I would do it again," Awawdeh told one of his jailers, according to a prosecutor at the suspect's Saturday arraignment in Manhattan Criminal Court, the paper reported. "I have no problem doing it again."
Here's a clip of Awawdeh in custody:
'I would do it again': Pro-Palestinian suspect accused of pummeling NYC Kippa-wearing Jewish youtu.be
More from the Post:
The attack was unprovoked, said prosecutors, who told Judge Kathryn Paek that Borgen was walking near Broadway and West 49th Street when Awawdeh "jumped him and attacked him."
Awawdeh, who has at least one open case in Brooklyn for allegedly speeding and running a red light in March, was charged with assault as a hate crime, gang assault, menacing, aggravated harassment as a hate crime and criminal possession of a weapon, police said.
The Manhattan assistant district attorney told Paek that the attack was a hate crime and said Awawdeh called Borgen a "dirty Jew" and said, "F*** Israel, Hamas is going to kill all of you," the paper said.
But friends of Awawdeh's, who refused to give their names, claimed Awawdeh was attacked first, the Post noted.
"They picked somebody that was weak, that was on crutches," one of them told the paper.
However, the NYPD released photos of four other men who are wanted in connection with Thursday's attack on Borgen, the Post added.
Awawdeh is enrolled in college and isn't a flight risk, according to his attorney, April White-Small of New York County Defenders, the paper said, adding that Awawdeh did not enter a plea.
What did the victim have to say?
"I felt a liquid being poured on my face, and at first I thought I was getting urinated on," Borgen told the Post. "But it turned out I was getting Maced and pepper-sprayed. My face was on fire. That pain was worse than the concussion and all this other stuff that followed."
Image source: YouTube screenshot
Borgen also told the paper he underwent a wrist X-ray, and although it's not broken it's "messed up. Every time I move it, it's in pain, probably sprained. I have bruises all over my body. I have a black eye. My face is banged up. I'm just sore all over my body. They were kicking me in my ribs, my stomach."
The victim also told the Post the attack got him reconsidering wearing his yarmulke in public in the future.Vanderbilt University's student government was called out for issuing a decidedly anti-Israel, pro-Palestinian statement over the weekend in the wake of the recent ceasefire after nearly two weeks of deadly fighting between the warring factions.
What are the details?
The unsigned statement is curiously titled "In Solidarity with Students" — but given the weight of the overall words, it seemed clear that not every student was created equal in the eyes of the college's student government.
While it makes a passing reference about extending "support and consolation to Israeli students also affected by this crisis" and that "there is no place for antisemitism or anti-Jewish sentiment of any kind" on campus, the vast majority of the two-page statement is passionately anti-Israel and pro-Palestinian — and fails to even mention the words "Hamas" or "terrorism" or the thousands of rocket attacks the Jewish state endured.
The most blatantly anti-Israel sections of the statement are found on the second page where Vanderbilt's student government catalogs death and destruction by Israel's "occupying forces" and uses phrases such as "indigenous Palestine," "targeting Muslim Palestinians during the holy month of Ramadan," "ethnic cleansing," and "inhumane and cruel acts of war, supremacy, and genocide."
Hillel had something to say
In the wake of the student government statement, Vanderbilt's Hillel group put together a response on its own Instagram page — and the campus' Jewish organization was not happy.
"Vanderbilt Hillel strongly condemns the recently released, biased statement from Vanderbilt Student Government," Hillel's statement begins. "Despite VSG's claim to denounce antisemitism, their statement contributes to the continued erosion of Jewish students' sense of safety at Vanderbilt and has unleashed a torrent of offensive comments online."
The Hillel statement goes on to say that Jewish students are being "targeted for harassment and abuse for their Jewishness, Zionism, and support of Israel as a Jewish state" and are left feeling "unwelcome and threatened" on campus. The statement also urged Vanderbilt to help student leaders especially to learn "the ways that anti-Israel activism becomes antisemitism."
What did Vanderbilt have to say?
The school made note on its website of the competing social media statements without mentioning specific student groups and encouraged peaceful, restrained interactions in regard to the volatile topic.
"Some student organizations on our campus have posted statements on social media about this issue that have prompted heated debate and discussion, marked by at times offensive and inflammatory rhetoric. Student organizations do not speak for the university or the overall Vanderbilt community. They are formed and led by students as an opportunity to enhance their college experience and become well-rounded leaders, scholars and citizens who navigate the world with civility, curiosity and respect for others. As such, all our students, whether members of these organizations or not, are expected to adhere to our high standards of conduct aligned with the university's policies and rules governing such groups."
The school's statement added that "we must all ensure through our words and our actions that Vanderbilt remains a safe and welcoming community committed to civil discourse, especially when we hold strong and impassioned views. Language and actions that constitute harassment and bullying are unacceptable and will not be tolerated."New drone video footage obtained by Fox News showed a group of about 40 illegal aliens rushing the U.S.-Mexico border into La Joya, Texas. The crowd of immigrants heavily outnumbered Border Patrol officers who attempted to stop them as they dashed across fences and streams into southern Texas.
What happened?
Fox News' drone team captured video Sunday morning of the group of dozens of illegals "running from overwhelmed Border Patrol agents."
The group was reportedly made up only of adults, including two men who were already handcuffed together, the outlet said.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
The video taken by a Fox News drone at La Joya showed 30 to 40 adult migrants, mostly men, scattering across the border, being chased by a lone Border Patrol agent in a pick-up. The agent attempted to chase the group down, but he was significantly outnumbered.
Another clip showed a single agent attempting to chase the large group on foot as they scaled fences and wall and leapt over narrow streams.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
According to Fox, only about 15 to 20 of the illegals were eventually taken into custody, with the rest fleeing on foot and avoiding capture by Border Patrol.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
A separate group of more than 50 migrants mostly from Romania, as well as some from Venezuela, Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras, elected to turn themselves in to agents Sunday rather than run, Fox News said.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott told Fox News he would be sending additional resources to the border to help the overwhelmed federal agents, citing not only immigration concerns but also the massive increase in drugs being smuggled across the southern border.
Just last week, Customs and Border Patrol revealed that their agents have seized more fentanyl in fiscal year 2021 than all of fiscal year 2020. Gov. Abbott told reporters that there had been an 800% increase in fentanyl seizures by the Texas Department of Public Safety in April compared to April 2020.
Drugs and people are not the only smuggled items officials are worried about. Fox News' Bill Melugin reported that the La Joya illegal immigration hotspot saw the arrest Friday of a Mexican national who was attempting to smuggle an arsenal of high-powered firearms and ammunition across the border.Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) called on the Biden administration to hold the Chinese Communist Party accountable for covering up the origins of COVID-19 as the hypothesis that the virus originated in a Wuhan virology lab gains mainstream credibility among scientists.
In an interview on "Sunday Morning Futures" on Fox News, Cotton discussed a letter he signed with seven other Republican lawmakers including Sens. Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.) pressing that the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for answers on allegations that the U.S. funded gain of function research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology to make pathogens like SARS-CoV-2 deadlier or more easily transmissible.
During a May 11 Senate hearing on the pandemic response, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Dr. Anthony Fauci denied that NIH has ever funded "gain of function research" at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. Fauci said that $600,000 in NIH subgrants that were diverted to the Wuhan Institute of Virology by a nonprofit group called the EcoHealth Alliance were used to study coronaviruses in bats and were not used for gain of function research.
On Sunday, Cotton told Fox News host Maria Bartiromo that Dr. Fauci was "playing word games" with the NIH funding.
"Dr. Fauci has been to Congress, and he said this absolutely did not happen. But Dr. Fauci is playing word games," Cotton said. "So, the money that the NIH gave went to an American organization, which turned around and gave hundreds of thousands of dollars to these Wuhan labs to investigate coronaviruses and, yes, to find ways to make them more contagious and more dangerous."
"And we asked [NIH Director] Francis Collins, who's Dr. Fauci's boss, to come clean, to tell us exactly what was happening, why this research was being funded, as you point out, Maria, during a time in which the Obama administration had explicitly banned this kind of gain of function research, research into making some of the world's deadliest pathogens even more dangerous," he added, suggesting that some "public health bureaucrats" may have violated the Obama administration's 2014 moratorium on gain of function research.
Watch:
Last year, Cotton was accused of promoting a "fringe" conspiracy theory when he raised the mere possibility that the Chinese government may have lied about the origins of the virus and that it could have originated in a Wuhan lab. Articles or posts on social media that advanced the "lab leak" hypothesis were labeled misinformation and suppressed by content moderators for contradicting the "scientific consensus" that COVID-19 originated in nature.
But now there is a growing community of scientists and credentialed health experts calling for renewed investigation into the "viable" theory that COVID-19 was accidentally released from a lab conducting gain of function research. There is no direct evidence that this happened, but scientists are not dismissing the possibility and are asking the federal government to attempt to find the truth.
An explosive U.S. intelligence report that came out over the weekend said that three researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology became sick enough with COVID-like symptoms in November 2019 that they required hospitalization. The report suggests COVID-19 was spreading in China much earlier than the Chinese government admitted, which vindicates Cotton for warning last year that it is likely China was "lying to the world" about the coronavirus outbreak.Having been stationed in Washington, D.C., for more than four months following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, the last remaining National Guard troops officially ended their term on Sunday, the Army reserve component announced in a news release.
"The National Guard's U.S. Capitol security mission to support the U.S. Capitol Police ends May 23," the release stated as the final 2,200 troops exited the nation's capital.
"They've hit that magic date, and they're going home," added retired Lt. Gen. Russel Honore on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday.
Honore, who oversaw a security review in the wake of the riot, noted that a smaller contingent of troops may continue to be stationed near the Capitol as part of a "quick reaction force," based on recommendations he made to Congress. But the daily sight of thousands of camouflaged military troops stationed near Capitol entry points is over, the Washington Examiner reported.
The continued presence of National Guard troops in the city had been criticized by many Republicans who saw their monthslong deployment in D.C. as a strain on the component's capabilities across the country as well as an unnecessary political operation — and an expensive one at that. In February, Pentagon officials estimated that deploying thousands of troops to the Capitol just through mid-March would cost about $500 million.
Democrats, on the other hand, claimed the troops were necessary to secure the Capitol amid alleged security threats from right-wing actors upset over the results of the election.
At its peak, about 26,000 National Guard troops from every U.S. state and territory were deployed to Washington to bolster security after a largely pro-Trump mob breached the Capitol, forcing the Congress to temporarily suspend certification of the 2020 election and vacate the building.
The shocking incident, which both indirectly and directly contributed to the deaths of five individuals and injuries to dozens more, has been widely characterized by politicians and media figures as an attempted insurrection.
The end of the Guard's mission at the Capitol comes as Congress debates future plans to fortify the Capitol and consider launching a broad "9/11-style" commission to review the events that led to the Jan. 6 riot.
Last Thursday, House Democrats approved a $1.9 billion fortification plan in a mostly party-line vote and, on Friday, approved — with 35 Republican votes — the formation of a Jan. 6 commission. Both measures face an uphill battle in the more balanced Senate.President Joe Biden is breaking one of his central campaign promises, surely upsetting progressives who wanted Biden to unilaterally cancel the massive bill of student loan debt that Americans have accumulated.
As of June 2020, outstanding federal student loan debt was $1.57 trillion, which included nearly 43 million borrowers.
What did Biden promise?
Biden's campaign website stated ambitious promises to "more than halve payments on undergraduate federal student loans," "make loan forgiveness work for public servants," and even to "make public colleges and universities tuition-free for all families with incomes below $125,000."
Biden reaffirmed his promise to take action on student loans when, after winning election in November, he endorsed a proposal from House Democrats to "immediately" cancel $10,000 of student loan debt from every federal borrower.
"It's holding people up," Biden said of student loan debt. "They're in real trouble. They're having to make choices between paying their student loans and paying their rent, those kinds of decisions. It should be done immediately.
"Immediate $10,000 forgiveness of student loans, helping people up there in real trouble," Biden said.
What are the details?
The Washington Post reported that Biden's first budget as president, which is expected to be finalized this week, will not address forgiving large amounts of student loan debt,
The absence of student loan debt forgiveness is one of many "ambitious Biden campaign pledges" missing from Biden's budget proposal, the Post noted.
The exclusion of student loan forgiveness in his budget is notable considering Biden has already proposed three massive legislative spending bills totaling more than $6 trillion. Why not tack on another $1 trillion or so to that price tag to appease far-left Democrats?
As Forbes noted, the writing is on the wall — Biden increasingly likely to renege on his campaign promise:
The exclusion of student loan cancellation isn't a surprise. Based on the latest news on student loan cancellation, it's easier to read the writing on the wall about where Biden stands on his executive authority to cancel student loans. It's not that Biden doesn't support student loan cancellation; he does. However, Biden wants Congress — not the president — to enact student loan cancellation through legislation.
In fact, Biden recently bucked the idea of forgiving debt incurred by those who choose to attend expensive universities.
"The idea that you go to Penn and you're paying a total of 70,000 bucks a year and the public should pay for that? I don't agree," Biden told the New York Times.
Anything else?
White House press secretary Jen Psaki confirmed in February the Justice Department was reviewing whether Biden has the legal authority to forgive student loans via executive action, something Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) have pressured Biden to do.
Neither the Justice Department nor Education Department has commented on Biden's legal authority to cancel student loans.It was the ultimate failure of our government to keep its most vulnerable citizens safe. An 82-year-old woman woke up at 3 a.m. on May 12 in her Martin County, Florida, home by a man who tied her up and raped her for 45 minutes. It turns out that individual came to this country illegally in 2016. Yet, despite at least three other arrests, he was never deported. In other words, this alleged attack was 100% preventable. These stories happen every day. THIS is the broken aspect of our immigration system that is never discussed.
Marvin Ailon-Mendoza, 20, appeared in court last Wednesday with an interpreter when he had his bail set at $520,000 for charges of sexual battery by great force, burglary of a dwelling with assault or battery while masked, and false imprisonment while masked.
According to Martin County Sherriff William Snyder, Mendoza is an illegal alien who came here as an "unaccompanied minor" in 2016 along with many other volatile Guatemalan teens. He had been arrested for several offenses while he was a minor, and then as an adult, was arrested for grand theft and battery. He was arrested again in 2019 for exposing himself at a park in front of children. He wound up serving 100 days in jail, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) never picked him up to ensure he'd be removed from the country.
The sheriff's office told me that the battery charge was for an arrest stemming from domestic violence incident when he allegedly choked a woman until she was nearly unconscious. There was also a probation violation as well. I was also told that the 82-year-old woman suffered significant physical trauma during the sexual assault.
The million-dollar question is how can an illegal alien with such a criminal record not be deported? We face a criminal justice crisis in this country with domestic criminals who constantly reoffend and revolve in and out of jail. But foreign nationals can and should easily be deported upon the first sign of trouble. Sheriff Snyder contends that his county always reports illegal aliens to federal immigration officials and it was the feds who dropped the ball. According to the sheriff, his office has documentation from the jail records system that shows ICE was notified when Mendoza was arrested.
The facts of the case are still unclear, but even under the Trump administration, the feds were extremely lenient on minors who committed offenses, so it's unfortunately not surprising that he would have remained in the country after he racked up charges as a juvenile. What is shocking, however, is how he was released onto the streets after serving 100 days for indecent exposure. Even if he somehow finagled legal status in the ensuing years since he came, those charges would have been grounds for an ICE hold.
In recent days, ICE announced the complete suspension of deportations for criminals below a pretty significant threshold. Overall, interior removals are down about 85%, dipping below 3,000 a month, down from about 22,000 a month in FY 2019. It's truly shocking to imagine the number of violent criminals from other countries who are remaining in this country to senselessly victimize Americans.
For example, just among the relatively small number of illegal alien criminals ICE arrested in FY 2019, they had a cumulative tally of:
More than 1,900 convictions and charges for homicide;
More than 1,800 convictions and charges for kidnapping;
More than 12,000 sex offenses, with more than 5,000 convictions and charges for sexual assault;
More than 45,000 convictions and charges for assault;
More than 67,000 convictions and charges for crimes involving drugs;
More than 10,000 convictions and charges for weapons offenses; and
More than 74,000 convictions and charges for Driving Under the Influence.
Remember, ICE has only 5,000 deportation officers (one-fourth of the size of the NYPD) for the millions of criminals aliens, so they often miss a lot of detainers, as was observed with Mendoza. Now, imagine an 85% decline in detainers and you can count the thousands upon thousands of people who will needlessly be victimized by other country's criminals remaining in America.
Just how badly do some government officials not want the public to know about the extent of the criminal alien crisis? When I asked some specific questions about Mendoza's immigration history, the sheriff's office told me that "immigration representatives told our records section that we are prohibited from releasing his immigration status." While the office is "researching the legality of that directive," it appears that this order is extremely novel. I have written about criminal alien cases for years, and throughout the Trump administration, DHS officials would give me information on immigration status except if the individual was a refugee or currently under 18 years old. The notion that even local law enforcement couldn't give out information on an adult illegal alien is unfounded in statute, according to former senior DHS officials I spoke to.
It's also peculiar that at a time when government is forcing people to disclose their medical conditions and whether they had a vaccine in order to breathe without a mask, they seem concerned about the privacy of illegal alien sex offenders. Throughout the past year we have heard that state governments have "the police power" to essentially nullify bodily integrity under the guise of protecting public health. Yet, somehow states lack the authority to take action against other countries' violent criminals under the guise of public safety.
"The federal government, and all government for that matter, have a singularly paramount obligation, and that is to protect their constituents," lamented Sheriff Snyder. "This case is a tragic illustration of how our government is failing in its number one priority."New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) announced that the city's public schools will fully reopen in September after being closed during the last school year under extreme pressure from the teachers unions.
Not only will the schools be back to in-person instruction full time, but also remote learning will no longer be an option.
What's happening?
Experts have known since last fall that youngsters are at very little risk when it comes to the coronavirus and that schools were essentially a non-threat when it comes to being sources for COVID-19 outbreaks. Yet, thousands of schools across the nation have remained closed.
Political and union leaders acted as though the classroom is a serious threat vector for the virus and used that scare tactic to keep schools shuttered — much to the detriment of millions of students and the chagrin of millions more parents.
New York City's 1 million students have been stuck in a school system that has feared bringing students back full time. Elected leadership kept schools closed, and teachers unions refused to budge in the face of calls to reopen from leaders and citizens, even when city officials made concessions to the unions — including bumping teachers to the front of the COVID-19 vaccine line.
Currently, more than 60% of the city's 1 million public school students are still learning fully remotely, U.S. News reported.
On Monday, Mayor de Blasio revealed that the city would no longer be held hostage by the teachers unions and would finally fully reopen all of Gotham's schools Sept. 13 — and that there would be no option for remote learning.
Hizzoner went on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" to make the big announcement.
"It's good news: New York City public schools, 1 million kids will be back in their classroom in September, all in person, no remote," de Blasio said. "That's the news I think parents, kids, everyone's been waiting for to know. We're going to be back strong, ready, safe."
The mayor noted that "COVID-19 is plummeting" across the city, with about 8 million vaccination doses administered.
But if the city wants to fully recover, de Blasio said, then it needs to have "full-strength schools, everyone back sitting in those classrooms, kids learning again."
"It's time," he added. "It's really time to go full strength now."
For parents concerned about their kids' health, the mayor said they will be inviting people to come to the schools in June to see what the district is doing for students to "keep them safe, get reacclimatized."
And for those parents who might have hoped they could get away with not making sure their kids are getting an education because they could hide behind virtual learning, de Blasio put the kibosh on that with his long-awaited definitive cancellation of all remote learning.Prominent Black Lives Matter activist Sasha Johnson was left in critical condition after being shot in the head in London, her political party told BBC News.
What are the details?
The Taking the Initiative Party, which Johnson helps lead, told the network she was taken to intensive care with life-threatening injuries after being "brutally attacked" early Sunday.
The party told BBC News that the attack followed "numerous death threats."
However, police said there was no evidence yet that the attack on the 27-year-old was targeted or that she received credible threats, the network added. BBC News also said they have not confirmed her identity.
Imarn Ayton, a friend of the victim, told the network that Johnson had been at a party or gathering when she was shot but did not believe she "was the intended victim."
"As far as I am aware ... this incident is more related to rival gangs as opposed to her activism," Ayton added to BBC News.
Detective Chief Inspector Jimi Tele said: "This was a shocking incident that has left a young woman with very serious injuries. Our thoughts are with her family who are being provided with support at this terribly difficult time," according to the network.
'The police is no different from the KKK'
As it happens, Johnson was caught on video last year giving a speech during which she noted that "the police is no different from the KKK."
She also said police "stand around and protect statues and buildings instead of people" and that "we need a black militia."
"We need our own political party," Johnson also declared, adding that the "back of racism is capitalism."
Content warning: Language:
Oxford Black Lives Matter Sasha calls for black militia - compares Police to the KKK youtu.be
What else do we know about Johnson?
BBC News said Johnson organized a Black Lives Matter protest last summer and has been a leading figure in the Black Lives Matter movement in the United Kingdom.
According to her Taking the Initiative Party's manifesto, it describes itself as aiming "to create real change in communities across the UK by setting the agenda in government," the network said.
The party said in an Instagram statement that Johnson is a mother of two and a "powerful voice" who had always been fighting for black people and against the injustices that affect the black community, BBC News said.
Black Lives Matters UK said it was shocked by the shooting of "a young mother and fearless political campaigner who was at the forefront of many BLM protests last summer," the network said — and that while Johnson isn't part of BLM UK, "she impressively founded a new Black-led political party and was dedicated to resist anti-Black racism."
The group added that "any attempt to intimidate or silence her is an attack on all of us," BBC News said.John Cena, the WWE star-turned actor, was bashed online Tuesday after he posted a video to Chinese social media network Sina Weibo apologizing to the Chinese people for referring to Taiwan as a "country."
Oh, and Cena delivered his mea culpa in Mandarin, the official language of China.
What happened?
While promoting the release of "F9" — the latest installment in the "Fast & Furious" franchise — Cena told Taiwanese broadcaster TVBS that Taiwan would "be the first country to see Fast & Furious 9."
The problem with Cena's statement, according to communist China, is that he acknowledged Taiwan as a sovereign country separate of China. The communist government claims Taiwan as its territory, but Taiwan claims to be a sovereign, self-governing republic. Conflict over Taiwan's status stems from the 20th century Chinese civil war, which has never technically ended.
Taiwan's independence, unfortunately, is mostly unacknowledged on the world stage — most countries have not established official diplomatic relations with Taiwan — and China aggressively polices speech regarding Taiwan. The communist government considers the recognition of Taiwan's sovereignty as crossing the proverbial "line in the sand."
What did Cena say?
Uploading a video to China's Twitter-like social media platform Sina Wiebo, Cena profusely apologized — although it was not good enough for many Chinese people.
"Hello, China. This is John Cena. I did many, many interviews for Fast & Furious 9. In one of the interviews I made a mistake," Cena said, according to Newsweek.
"I love and respect China and Chinese people. I'm very, very sorry for my mistake. Sorry, sorry. I'm very sorry," he added. "You must understand I love and respect China and Chinese people. Sorry. Goodbye."
The video was reportedly flooded with thousands of comments from Chinese users who thought Cena's apology was not sufficient.
"Please say in Chinese, 'Taiwan is part of China,' otherwise we won't accept [your apology]," the top comment on the video said, Newsweek reported.
"Then at least say Taiwan is China's. You're avoiding the issue and talking nonsense. You can't benefit from [the Chinese market] and trash it at the same time," another critic said.
The movie debuted in China last Friday, Newsweek reported.
What was the reaction?
Cena's capitulation to communist China's claim about Taiwan triggered an avalanche of backlash for the Hollywood star.Isn't it so nice of these criminals who are willing to serve their community by getting vaccinated? That should be grounds to lop off half their already lenient sentence of community service.
This might sound like another sadistic joke, but it is the reality for two Georgia counties. Georgia's Hall and Dawson counties are now offering those performing community service as part of their sentence to receive earned time for getting vaccinated.
Hall County Court Administrator Jason Stephenson told local media that judges can offer up to 20 to 40 hours' worth of community service for who show proof of vaccination.
"In our judge's view, every shot in the arm is a service to the community," Stephenson said. "For some offenders it does seem appropriate to recognize that the time and the cost involved and perhaps lining up childcare, taking time off from work, arranging for transportation, and making to a vaccination site – not once but twice. This recognizes the commitment they've made in doing that."
Yes, I mean can you imagine the sacrifice it takes for these criminals to be willing to be vaccinated. Andy Maddox, senior assistant public defender of Hall County, aptly described the amazing self-sacrifice and why it should count toward community service time.
"Somebody mentions 20 hours and that may not sound like a lot," Maddox said, "but that half a work week and if somebody can get a shot instead of doing 20 hours of community service, that is a pretty strong incentive."
It's hard to tell if these sentiments demonstrate how dangerous the vaccine is or how callous we are in dealing with criminals, or both. Remember, judges have already released hundreds of thousands of criminals due to COVID jailbreak, and countless others have never been locked up because of COVID-19. Now the vaccine is being used as a backend leniency to both line the pockets of big pharma and to go easy on criminals, two pastimes of our corrupt ruling class.
Some media reports have observed that Georgia's vaccination rate is about 10 points lower than the national average, however, there is no evidence that Georgia is suffering any worse community spread than any of its neighbors. So many states in the northeast or upper Midwest have much higher vaccination rates than Georgia, yet they have more community spread, according to CDC's latest tracking map. Minnesota ranks #11 in terms of percent of the residents vaccinated, but it is currently one of the hot spots.
Clearly, it's herd immunity and seasonal/geographic patters, not vaccination rates that are driving the waning months of this pandemic. However, that won't stop governments from violating all laws and social norms to obsessively promote the experimental vaccines.
Maryland and Ohio residents can register for a lottery if they receive a vaccine. In New York, anyone who gets vaccinated will receive a $20 lottery ticket for the $5 million Mega Multiplier Lottery as part of the "Vax & Scratch" program.
These people have lied to us about every aspect of this virus – from the origins and methods of transmission to social distancing and masking. Are we really supposed to believe their narrative regarding vaccines when they are acting this capriciously in getting people to take the shots?The father of the 4-year-old boy found murdered in the middle of a Dallas street explained why he left his twin boys with his girlfriend after growing public scrutiny.
Cash Gernon was found laying in a pool of blood by a jogger on the early morning on May 16. Police later arrested 18-year-old Darriynn Brown as a suspect in the murder.
One of the immediate mysteries arising out of the case was why the boy and his twin brother were not with his parents but instead living at the home of an unrelated guardian identified as Monica Sherrod.
On Sunday, the boy's father posted a video statement to the YouTube page of his sister in order to explain the circumstances surrounding the death of his son.
"I'll start by clarifying my absence," Trevor Gernon said.
"I knew Monica for a few good years before moving to the Dallas area. She was a single parent like me, so naturally I would ask her advice on local things. At the end of February, beginning of March, Monica offered her home and help, which i was thankful for, being a single dad with twin 4-years-olds can be overwhelming from time to time," he explained.
"When I decided to move back to Houston, after an unsuccessful job hunt amongst other things, I felt it was in the boys' best interest to not disrupt their routine. They were comfortable, they were around other kids, and from what it appeared, Monica was a trustworthy person," he added.
"This choice I made with the best of intentions has resulted in the most horrific outcome. I have paid the most ultimate, painful price for my poor judgment, and I have to live with this devastation every single day. I will never forgive myself," he said. "This is a nightmare that doesn't go away when I open my eyes in the morning."
The father also addressed the boy's mother, Melinda Seagroves. She has claimed that the father ran off with the children and that she has been trying to locate them for months.
"Mindy, I am so sorry that I failed to keep him safe. That is my job as a dad, and I was not able to do that and I'm sorry," he said emotionally. "To make matters worse, I have to fear for my freedom as it is the goal of some to see me go to jail rather than grieve the loss of my little boy. All I want to do is have that one thing that every parent deserves to say goodbye and be with my son one last time."
Harrowing surveillance video caught the moment that Brown allegedly snuck into the room where Gernon was sleeping and snatched him from his crib. Another video shows the same man allegedly attempting to kidnap the boy's twin brother, but then run off without him.
Brown has been charged with kidnapping and burglary, but police say more charges could be added depending on the results of forensic tests.
The video of the father's statement shuffles through images of the father with his two boys.As pro-Palestinian activists engage in a rising wave of attacks against American Jews, some progressive lawmakers who have criticized Israel are condemning the anti-Semitic violence but also are suggesting without evidence there is a concurrent rise in Islamophobia since violence renewed between Israel and Hamas.
Recent high-profile anti-Semitic attacks in New York City and Los Angeles in the last two weeks have called national attention to a rising wave of hate crimes committed against Jews.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), an outspoken critic of Israel, on Friday condemned "disturbing antisemitic attacks and a troubling rise in Islamophobia."
"If you are committed to a future of equality and peaceful coexistence, please stand united against anyone who promotes hatred of any kind," Sanders tweeted.
Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.) shared Sanders' tweet with a quote from Martin Luther King Jr. and said, "We won't be free if we come from a place of hate + violence + racism."
The Anti-Defamation League last week reported a 47% increase from the previous week in online and real-world incidents of anti-Semitism in the United States. The ADL said there were 193 reports of possible anti-Semitic attacks in the U.S. from May 7-14, up from 131 incidents reported the week prior.
Examples of the hateful incidents include at least one Jewish individual who was beaten by a pro-Palestinian mob in Los Angeles and a group of around 20 pro-Palestinian protesters in Skokie, Illinois, who chanted "Intifada!" and "From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free" across the street from Temple Beth Israel synagogue.
An ADL analysis of Twitter found more than 17,000 tweets that used variations of the phrase, "Hitler was right" in the same time period.
"As the violence between Israel and Hamas continues to escalate, we are witnessing a dangerous and drastic surge in anti-Jewish hate right here at home," ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt said. "We are tracking acts of harassment, vandalism and violence as well as a torrent of online abuse. It's happening around the world — from London to Los Angeles, from France to Florida, in big cities like New York and in small towns, and across every social media platform.
"To those who choose to indulge in age-old antisemitic tropes, exaggerated claims and inflammatory rhetoric, it has consequences: attacks in real life on real people targeted for no other reason than they are Jewish," Greenblatt said. "This is antisemitism, plain and simple. And it's indisputably inexcusable in any context."
Though Sanders indicated there was an equivalency between rising anti-Semitic hate and Islamophobia, there does not appear to be data showing a rise in Islamophobic incidents in the past two weeks.
Other progressive lawmakers spoke out against anti-Semitism and hate crimes.
"We will never, ever tolerate antisemitism here in NY or anywhere in the world. The recent surge in attacks is horrifying. We stand with our Jewish communities in condemning this violence," Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said, who earlier that week called Israel an "apartheid state."
Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) said the attack at the Los Angeles restaurant was "horrific and unacceptable."
"Nobody should face threats and harassment based on their religion or ethnicity," she tweeted. "This has to stop."A 40-year-old man was found dead inside a large papier-mâché dinosaur statue in Spain after being reported missing by his family only hours earlier, multiple Spanish outlets reported over the weekend.
The man, whose identity has been protected, was discovered when a father and son who frequent the area alerted police after noticing a foul smell and seeing what they perceived to be a human leg through a crack in the statue, local news outlet La Vanguardia reported.
When firefighters arrived on the scene, they were forced to cut the statue open in order to remove the man's corpse.
The Stegosaurus statue, which had been constructed as an advertisement for a since-closed movie theater, is located in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, a suburb of Barcelona.
A video posted to Twitter by Spanish media outlet El Mirall.net shows firefighters using a crane to approach the statue from above while others on the ground appear to use an electric saw to cut at its leg.
Catalonia police, called the Mossos d'Esquadra, reported to La Vanguardia that there were no "indications of criminality" in relation to the incident and that they were awaiting an autopsy to officially determine the cause of the man's death.
According to local reports, police, initially suspecting the man to be homeless, believed that he had crawled into the statue to spend the night before getting trapped.
But upon learning that a missing persons report had been filed, police ruled out the possibility that the man was homeless. They now posit that he may have somehow dropped his cellphone inside the statue before flipping upside down and getting stuck trying to retrieve it.
Citing El Periódico, Newsweek reported that the man's family reported him missing after he had been away from them for two days.
The dinosaur, which was the last of several promotional decorations on display nearby the theater, has reportedly been removed from the area.Prosecutors said a Brooklyn man accused of beating up a Jewish man in a hate attack in midtown Manhattan last week — in which he allegedly called the victim a "dirty Jew" — declared from his jail cell that he would "do it again," the New York Post reported.
What are the details?
The Post said Waseem Awawdeh, 23, was held on $10,000 bail in connection to the Thursday attack and is accused of punching, kicking, and pepper-spraying 29-year-old Joseph Borgen — as well as beating the victim with crutches.
"If I could do it again, I would do it again," Awawdeh told one of his jailers, according to a prosecutor at the suspect's Saturday arraignment in Manhattan Criminal Court, the paper reported. "I have no problem doing it again."
Here's a clip of Awawdeh in custody:
'I would do it again': Pro-Palestinian suspect accused of pummeling NYC Kippa-wearing Jewish youtu.be
More from the Post:
The attack was unprovoked, said prosecutors, who told Judge Kathryn Paek that Borgen was walking near Broadway and West 49th Street when Awawdeh "jumped him and attacked him."
Awawdeh, who has at least one open case in Brooklyn for allegedly speeding and running a red light in March, was charged with assault as a hate crime, gang assault, menacing, aggravated harassment as a hate crime and criminal possession of a weapon, police said.
The Manhattan assistant district attorney told Paek that the attack was a hate crime and said Awawdeh called Borgen a "dirty Jew" and said, "F*** Israel, Hamas is going to kill all of you," the paper said.
But friends of Awawdeh's, who refused to give their names, claimed Awawdeh was attacked first, the Post noted.
"They picked somebody that was weak, that was on crutches," one of them told the paper.
However, the NYPD released photos of four other men who are wanted in connection with Thursday's attack on Borgen, the Post added.
Awawdeh is enrolled in college and isn't a flight risk, according to his attorney, April White-Small of New York County Defenders, the paper said, adding that Awawdeh did not enter a plea.
What did the victim have to say?
"I felt a liquid being poured on my face, and at first I thought I was getting urinated on," Borgen told the Post. "But it turned out I was getting Maced and pepper-sprayed. My face was on fire. That pain was worse than the concussion and all this other stuff that followed."
Image source: YouTube screenshot
Borgen also told the paper he underwent a wrist X-ray, and although it's not broken it's "messed up. Every time I move it, it's in pain, probably sprained. I have bruises all over my body. I have a black eye. My face is banged up. I'm just sore all over my body. They were kicking me in my ribs, my stomach."
The victim also told the Post the attack got him reconsidering wearing his yarmulke in public in the future.Vanderbilt University's student government was called out for issuing a decidedly anti-Israel, pro-Palestinian statement over the weekend in the wake of the recent ceasefire after nearly two weeks of deadly fighting between the warring factions.
What are the details?
The unsigned statement is curiously titled "In Solidarity with Students" — but given the weight of the overall words, it seemed clear that not every student was created equal in the eyes of the college's student government.
While it makes a passing reference about extending "support and consolation to Israeli students also affected by this crisis" and that "there is no place for antisemitism or anti-Jewish sentiment of any kind" on campus, the vast majority of the two-page statement is passionately anti-Israel and pro-Palestinian — and fails to even mention the words "Hamas" or "terrorism" or the thousands of rocket attacks the Jewish state endured.
The most blatantly anti-Israel sections of the statement are found on the second page where Vanderbilt's student government catalogs death and destruction by Israel's "occupying forces" and uses phrases such as "indigenous Palestine," "targeting Muslim Palestinians during the holy month of Ramadan," "ethnic cleansing," and "inhumane and cruel acts of war, supremacy, and genocide."
Hillel had something to say
In the wake of the student government statement, Vanderbilt's Hillel group put together a response on its own Instagram page — and the campus' Jewish organization was not happy.
"Vanderbilt Hillel strongly condemns the recently released, biased statement from Vanderbilt Student Government," Hillel's statement begins. "Despite VSG's claim to denounce antisemitism, their statement contributes to the continued erosion of Jewish students' sense of safety at Vanderbilt and has unleashed a torrent of offensive comments online."
The Hillel statement goes on to say that Jewish students are being "targeted for harassment and abuse for their Jewishness, Zionism, and support of Israel as a Jewish state" and are left feeling "unwelcome and threatened" on campus. The statement also urged Vanderbilt to help student leaders especially to learn "the ways that anti-Israel activism becomes antisemitism."
What did Vanderbilt have to say?
The school made note on its website of the competing social media statements without mentioning specific student groups and encouraged peaceful, restrained interactions in regard to the volatile topic.
"Some student organizations on our campus have posted statements on social media about this issue that have prompted heated debate and discussion, marked by at times offensive and inflammatory rhetoric. Student organizations do not speak for the university or the overall Vanderbilt community. They are formed and led by students as an opportunity to enhance their college experience and become well-rounded leaders, scholars and citizens who navigate the world with civility, curiosity and respect for others. As such, all our students, whether members of these organizations or not, are expected to adhere to our high standards of conduct aligned with the university's policies and rules governing such groups."
The school's statement added that "we must all ensure through our words and our actions that Vanderbilt remains a safe and welcoming community committed to civil discourse, especially when we hold strong and impassioned views. Language and actions that constitute harassment and bullying are unacceptable and will not be tolerated."New drone video footage obtained by Fox News showed a group of about 40 illegal aliens rushing the U.S.-Mexico border into La Joya, Texas. The crowd of immigrants heavily outnumbered Border Patrol officers who attempted to stop them as they dashed across fences and streams into southern Texas.
What happened?
Fox News' drone team captured video Sunday morning of the group of dozens of illegals "running from overwhelmed Border Patrol agents."
The group was reportedly made up only of adults, including two men who were already handcuffed together, the outlet said.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
The video taken by a Fox News drone at La Joya showed 30 to 40 adult migrants, mostly men, scattering across the border, being chased by a lone Border Patrol agent in a pick-up. The agent attempted to chase the group down, but he was significantly outnumbered.
Another clip showed a single agent attempting to chase the large group on foot as they scaled fences and wall and leapt over narrow streams.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
According to Fox, only about 15 to 20 of the illegals were eventually taken into custody, with the rest fleeing on foot and avoiding capture by Border Patrol.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
A separate group of more than 50 migrants mostly from Romania, as well as some from Venezuela, Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras, elected to turn themselves in to agents Sunday rather than run, Fox News said.
Image source: Twitter/Fox News video screenshot
Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott told Fox News he would be sending additional resources to the border to help the overwhelmed federal agents, citing not only immigration concerns but also the massive increase in drugs being smuggled across the southern border.
Just last week, Customs and Border Patrol revealed that their agents have seized more fentanyl in fiscal year 2021 than all of fiscal year 2020. Gov. Abbott told reporters that there had been an 800% increase in fentanyl seizures by the Texas Department of Public Safety in April compared to April 2020.
Drugs and people are not the only smuggled items officials are worried about. Fox News' Bill Melugin reported that the La Joya illegal immigration hotspot saw the arrest Friday of a Mexican national who was attempting to smuggle an arsenal of high-powered firearms and ammunition across the border.Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) called on the Biden administration to hold the Chinese Communist Party accountable for covering up the origins of COVID-19 as the hypothesis that the virus originated in a Wuhan virology lab gains mainstream credibility among scientists.
In an interview on "Sunday Morning Futures" on Fox News, Cotton discussed a letter he signed with seven other Republican lawmakers including Sens. Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.) pressing that the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for answers on allegations that the U.S. funded gain of function research at the Wuhan Institute of Virology to make pathogens like SARS-CoV-2 deadlier or more easily transmissible.
During a May 11 Senate hearing on the pandemic response, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Dr. Anthony Fauci denied that NIH has ever funded "gain of function research" at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. Fauci said that $600,000 in NIH subgrants that were diverted to the Wuhan Institute of Virology by a nonprofit group called the EcoHealth Alliance were used to study coronaviruses in bats and were not used for gain of function research.
On Sunday, Cotton told Fox News host Maria Bartiromo that Dr. Fauci was "playing word games" with the NIH funding.
"Dr. Fauci has been to Congress, and he said this absolutely did not happen. But Dr. Fauci is playing word games," Cotton said. "So, the money that the NIH gave went to an American organization, which turned around and gave hundreds of thousands of dollars to these Wuhan labs to investigate coronaviruses and, yes, to find ways to make them more contagious and more dangerous."
"And we asked [NIH Director] Francis Collins, who's Dr. Fauci's boss, to come clean, to tell us exactly what was happening, why this research was being funded, as you point out, Maria, during a time in which the Obama administration had explicitly banned this kind of gain of function research, research into making some of the world's deadliest pathogens even more dangerous," he added, suggesting that some "public health bureaucrats" may have violated the Obama administration's 2014 moratorium on gain of function research.
Watch:
Last year, Cotton was accused of promoting a "fringe" conspiracy theory when he raised the mere possibility that the Chinese government may have lied about the origins of the virus and that it could have originated in a Wuhan lab. Articles or posts on social media that advanced the "lab leak" hypothesis were labeled misinformation and suppressed by content moderators for contradicting the "scientific consensus" that COVID-19 originated in nature.
But now there is a growing community of scientists and credentialed health experts calling for renewed investigation into the "viable" theory that COVID-19 was accidentally released from a lab conducting gain of function research. There is no direct evidence that this happened, but scientists are not dismissing the possibility and are asking the federal government to attempt to find the truth.
An explosive U.S. intelligence report that came out over the weekend said that three researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology became sick enough with COVID-like symptoms in November 2019 that they required hospitalization. The report suggests COVID-19 was spreading in China much earlier than the Chinese government admitted, which vindicates Cotton for warning last year that it is likely China was "lying to the world" about the coronavirus outbreak.Having been stationed in Washington, D.C., for more than four months following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, the last remaining National Guard troops officially ended their term on Sunday, the Army reserve component announced in a news release.
"The National Guard's U.S. Capitol security mission to support the U.S. Capitol Police ends May 23," the release stated as the final 2,200 troops exited the nation's capital.
"They've hit that magic date, and they're going home," added retired Lt. Gen. Russel Honore on CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday.
Honore, who oversaw a security review in the wake of the riot, noted that a smaller contingent of troops may continue to be stationed near the Capitol as part of a "quick reaction force," based on recommendations he made to Congress. But the daily sight of thousands of camouflaged military troops stationed near Capitol entry points is over, the Washington Examiner reported.
The continued presence of National Guard troops in the city had been criticized by many Republicans who saw their monthslong deployment in D.C. as a strain on the component's capabilities across the country as well as an unnecessary political operation — and an expensive one at that. In February, Pentagon officials estimated that deploying thousands of troops to the Capitol just through mid-March would cost about $500 million.
Democrats, on the other hand, claimed the troops were necessary to secure the Capitol amid alleged security threats from right-wing actors upset over the results of the election.
At its peak, about 26,000 National Guard troops from every U.S. state and territory were deployed to Washington to bolster security after a largely pro-Trump mob breached the Capitol, forcing the Congress to temporarily suspend certification of the 2020 election and vacate the building.
The shocking incident, which both indirectly and directly contributed to the deaths of five individuals and injuries to dozens more, has been widely characterized by politicians and media figures as an attempted insurrection.
The end of the Guard's mission at the Capitol comes as Congress debates future plans to fortify the Capitol and consider launching a broad "9/11-style" commission to review the events that led to the Jan. 6 riot.
Last Thursday, House Democrats approved a $1.9 billion fortification plan in a mostly party-line vote and, on Friday, approved — with 35 Republican votes — the formation of a Jan. 6 commission. Both measures face an uphill battle in the more balanced Senate.President Joe Biden is breaking one of his central campaign promises, surely upsetting progressives who wanted Biden to unilaterally cancel the massive bill of student loan debt that Americans have accumulated.
As of June 2020, outstanding federal student loan debt was $1.57 trillion, which included nearly 43 million borrowers.
What did Biden promise?
Biden's campaign website stated ambitious promises to "more than halve payments on undergraduate federal student loans," "make loan forgiveness work for public servants," and even to "make public colleges and universities tuition-free for all families with incomes below $125,000."
Biden reaffirmed his promise to take action on student loans when, after winning election in November, he endorsed a proposal from House Democrats to "immediately" cancel $10,000 of student loan debt from every federal borrower.
"It's holding people up," Biden said of student loan debt. "They're in real trouble. They're having to make choices between paying their student loans and paying their rent, those kinds of decisions. It should be done immediately.
"Immediate $10,000 forgiveness of student loans, helping people up there in real trouble," Biden said.
What are the details?
The Washington Post reported that Biden's first budget as president, which is expected to be finalized this week, will not address forgiving large amounts of student loan debt,
The absence of student loan debt forgiveness is one of many "ambitious Biden campaign pledges" missing from Biden's budget proposal, the Post noted.
The exclusion of student loan forgiveness in his budget is notable considering Biden has already proposed three massive legislative spending bills totaling more than $6 trillion. Why not tack on another $1 trillion or so to that price tag to appease far-left Democrats?
As Forbes noted, the writing is on the wall — Biden increasingly likely to renege on his campaign promise:
The exclusion of student loan cancellation isn't a surprise. Based on the latest news on student loan cancellation, it's easier to read the writing on the wall about where Biden stands on his executive authority to cancel student loans. It's not that Biden doesn't support student loan cancellation; he does. However, Biden wants Congress — not the president — to enact student loan cancellation through legislation.
In fact, Biden recently bucked the idea of forgiving debt incurred by those who choose to attend expensive universities.
"The idea that you go to Penn and you're paying a total of 70,000 bucks a year and the public should pay for that? I don't agree," Biden told the New York Times.
Anything else?
White House press secretary Jen Psaki confirmed in February the Justice Department was reviewing whether Biden has the legal authority to forgive student loans via executive action, something Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) have pressured Biden to do.
Neither the Justice Department nor Education Department has commented on Biden's legal authority to cancel student loans.It was the ultimate failure of our government to keep its most vulnerable citizens safe. An 82-year-old woman woke up at 3 a.m. on May 12 in her Martin County, Florida, home by a man who tied her up and raped her for 45 minutes. It turns out that individual came to this country illegally in 2016. Yet, despite at least three other arrests, he was never deported. In other words, this alleged attack was 100% preventable. These stories happen every day. THIS is the broken aspect of our immigration system that is never discussed.
Marvin Ailon-Mendoza, 20, appeared in court last Wednesday with an interpreter when he had his bail set at $520,000 for charges of sexual battery by great force, burglary of a dwelling with assault or battery while masked, and false imprisonment while masked.
According to Martin County Sherriff William Snyder, Mendoza is an illegal alien who came here as an "unaccompanied minor" in 2016 along with many other volatile Guatemalan teens. He had been arrested for several offenses while he was a minor, and then as an adult, was arrested for grand theft and battery. He was arrested again in 2019 for exposing himself at a park in front of children. He wound up serving 100 days in jail, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) never picked him up to ensure he'd be removed from the country.
The sheriff's office told me that the battery charge was for an arrest stemming from domestic violence incident when he allegedly choked a woman until she was nearly unconscious. There was also a probation violation as well. I was also told that the 82-year-old woman suffered significant physical trauma during the sexual assault.
The million-dollar question is how can an illegal alien with such a criminal record not be deported? We face a criminal justice crisis in this country with domestic criminals who constantly reoffend and revolve in and out of jail. But foreign nationals can and should easily be deported upon the first sign of trouble. Sheriff Snyder contends that his county always reports illegal aliens to federal immigration officials and it was the feds who dropped the ball. According to the sheriff, his office has documentation from the jail records system that shows ICE was notified when Mendoza was arrested.
The facts of the case are still unclear, but even under the Trump administration, the feds were extremely lenient on minors who committed offenses, so it's unfortunately not surprising that he would have remained in the country after he racked up charges as a juvenile. What is shocking, however, is how he was released onto the streets after serving 100 days for indecent exposure. Even if he somehow finagled legal status in the ensuing years since he came, those charges would have been grounds for an ICE hold.
In recent days, ICE announced the complete suspension of deportations for criminals below a pretty significant threshold. Overall, interior removals are down about 85%, dipping below 3,000 a month, down from about 22,000 a month in FY 2019. It's truly shocking to imagine the number of violent criminals from other countries who are remaining in this country to senselessly victimize Americans.
For example, just among the relatively small number of illegal alien criminals ICE arrested in FY 2019, they had a cumulative tally of:
More than 1,900 convictions and charges for homicide;
More than 1,800 convictions and charges for kidnapping;
More than 12,000 sex offenses, with more than 5,000 convictions and charges for sexual assault;
More than 45,000 convictions and charges for assault;
More than 67,000 convictions and charges for crimes involving drugs;
More than 10,000 convictions and charges for weapons offenses; and
More than 74,000 convictions and charges for Driving Under the Influence.
Remember, ICE has only 5,000 deportation officers (one-fourth of the size of the NYPD) for the millions of criminals aliens, so they often miss a lot of detainers, as was observed with Mendoza. Now, imagine an 85% decline in detainers and you can count the thousands upon thousands of people who will needlessly be victimized by other country's criminals remaining in America.
Just how badly do some government officials not want the public to know about the extent of the criminal alien crisis? When I asked some specific questions about Mendoza's immigration history, the sheriff's office told me that "immigration representatives told our records section that we are prohibited from releasing his immigration status." While the office is "researching the legality of that directive," it appears that this order is extremely novel. I have written about criminal alien cases for years, and throughout the Trump administration, DHS officials would give me information on immigration status except if the individual was a refugee or currently under 18 years old. The notion that even local law enforcement couldn't give out information on an adult illegal alien is unfounded in statute, according to former senior DHS officials I spoke to.
It's also peculiar that at a time when government is forcing people to disclose their medical conditions and whether they had a vaccine in order to breathe without a mask, they seem concerned about the privacy of illegal alien sex offenders. Throughout the past year we have heard that state governments have "the police power" to essentially nullify bodily integrity under the guise of protecting public health. Yet, somehow states lack the authority to take action against other countries' violent criminals under the guise of public safety.
"The federal government, and all government for that matter, have a singularly paramount obligation, and that is to protect their constituents," lamented Sheriff Snyder. "This case is a tragic illustration of how our government is failing in its number one priority."New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) announced that the city's public schools will fully reopen in September after being closed during the last school year under extreme pressure from the teachers unions.
Not only will the schools be back to in-person instruction full time, but also remote learning will no longer be an option.
What's happening?
Experts have known since last fall that youngsters are at very little risk when it comes to the coronavirus and that schools were essentially a non-threat when it comes to being sources for COVID-19 outbreaks. Yet, thousands of schools across the nation have remained closed.
Political and union leaders acted as though the classroom is a serious threat vector for the virus and used that scare tactic to keep schools shuttered — much to the detriment of millions of students and the chagrin of millions more parents.
New York City's 1 million students have been stuck in a school system that has feared bringing students back full time. Elected leadership kept schools closed, and teachers unions refused to budge in the face of calls to reopen from leaders and citizens, even when city officials made concessions to the unions — including bumping teachers to the front of the COVID-19 vaccine line.
Currently, more than 60% of the city's 1 million public school students are still learning fully remotely, U.S. News reported.
On Monday, Mayor de Blasio revealed that the city would no longer be held hostage by the teachers unions and would finally fully reopen all of Gotham's schools Sept. 13 — and that there would be no option for remote learning.
Hizzoner went on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" to make the big announcement.
"It's good news: New York City public schools, 1 million kids will be back in their classroom in September, all in person, no remote," de Blasio said. "That's the news I think parents, kids, everyone's been waiting for to know. We're going to be back strong, ready, safe."
The mayor noted that "COVID-19 is plummeting" across the city, with about 8 million vaccination doses administered.
But if the city wants to fully recover, de Blasio said, then it needs to have "full-strength schools, everyone back sitting in those classrooms, kids learning again."
"It's time," he added. "It's really time to go full strength now."
For parents concerned about their kids' health, the mayor said they will be inviting people to come to the schools in June to see what the district is doing for students to "keep them safe, get reacclimatized."
And for those parents who might have hoped they could get away with not making sure their kids are getting an education because they could hide behind virtual learning, de Blasio put the kibosh on that with his long-awaited definitive cancellation of all remote learning.Prominent Black Lives Matter activist Sasha Johnson was left in critical condition after being shot in the head in London, her political party told BBC News.
What are the details?
The Taking the Initiative Party, which Johnson helps lead, told the network she was taken to intensive care with life-threatening injuries after being "brutally attacked" early Sunday.
The party told BBC News that the attack followed "numerous death threats."
However, police said there was no evidence yet that the attack on the 27-year-old was targeted or that she received credible threats, the network added. BBC News also said they have not confirmed her identity.
Imarn Ayton, a friend of the victim, told the network that Johnson had been at a party or gathering when she was shot but did not believe she "was the intended victim."
"As far as I am aware ... this incident is more related to rival gangs as opposed to her activism," Ayton added to BBC News.
Detective Chief Inspector Jimi Tele said: "This was a shocking incident that has left a young woman with very serious injuries. Our thoughts are with her family who are being provided with support at this terribly difficult time," according to the network.
'The police is no different from the KKK'
As it happens, Johnson was caught on video last year giving a speech during which she noted that "the police is no different from the KKK."
She also said police "stand around and protect statues and buildings instead of people" and that "we need a black militia."
"We need our own political party," Johnson also declared, adding that the "back of racism is capitalism."
Content warning: Language:
Oxford Black Lives Matter Sasha calls for black militia - compares Police to the KKK youtu.be
What else do we know about Johnson?
BBC News said Johnson organized a Black Lives Matter protest last summer and has been a leading figure in the Black Lives Matter movement in the United Kingdom.
According to her Taking the Initiative Party's manifesto, it describes itself as aiming "to create real change in communities across the UK by setting the agenda in government," the network said.
The party said in an Instagram statement that Johnson is a mother of two and a "powerful voice" who had always been fighting for black people and against the injustices that affect the black community, BBC News said.
Black Lives Matters UK said it was shocked by the shooting of "a young mother and fearless political campaigner who was at the forefront of many BLM protests last summer," the network said — and that while Johnson isn't part of BLM UK, "she impressively founded a new Black-led political party and was dedicated to resist anti-Black racism."
The group added that "any attempt to intimidate or silence her is an attack on all of us," BBC News said.Belarus drew swift condemnation from international leaders after the country reportedly used a fighter jet and a false bomb alert to force the landing of a Ryanair passenger plane over Minsk and seize opposition journalist, Roman Protasevich, on Sunday.
But in the hours after the abduction, Ryanair's press office amazingly reported that "nothing untoward" occurred during the flight's simple "diversion."
In a statement issued on Sunday, Ryanair stated, "The aircraft landed safely and passengers were offloaded while security checks were completed by local authorities. Nothing untoward was found and authorities cleared the aircraft to depart together with passengers and crew after approx. 7hrs on the ground in Minsk."
Responding to the statement, Washington Post reporter Liz Sly charged, "Ryanair has quite literally airbrushed Roman Protasevich from the record," noting the airline neglected to mention in its summary of facts that "one passenger was kidnapped [and] taken away."
Roughly a day later, the company issued an updated statement in which it condemned the "unlawful actions of the Barusian authorities" as "an act of aviation piracy." Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary followed by calling the incident "state-sponsored hijacking" on Irish Newstalk radio.
But the amendment came much too late as far as many critics were concerned, many of which were upset at the airline for turning over Protasevich to authorities of the despotic regime led by Alexander Lukashenko in the first place.
After all, Ryanair's initial response put them in line with the likes of Russia, whose foreign minister, Sergei Lavro, on Monday defended Belarus's actions as an "absolutely reasonable approach."
The United States and the rest of Europe on Monday condemned the shocking action as an act of "piracy," "hijacking," and "state terrorism," NBC News reported, adding that U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken had demanded an international investigation to be conducted.
Reuters reported that the incident and subsequent punitive actions against Belarus were expected to dominate a planned European Union summit on Monday.
The news agency also reported that 26-year-old Protasevich — who has worked for Poland-based news service NEXTA and is wanted in Belarus for broadcasting protests against Lukashenko last year — "held his head in his hands and looked sad and scared on landing."
According to reports, Protasevich was seen being escorted by authorities into custody shortly after the plane landed on Minsk. At this point it is unclear what crimes he is charged with, but BBC News noted that in Belarus, causing mass unrest can be punished by up to 15 years in jail.Legendary guitarist Eric Clapton said he suffered "disastrous" side effects from his COVID-19 vaccine treatments and blamed "propaganda" insisting that the shots are safe.
What are the details?
Rolling Stone reported that the 76-year-old musician — known the world over for his stints with the Yardbirds and Cream in the 1960s as well as his long solo career marked by classic songs such as "Layla" and "Wonderful Tonight" — in February got an initial AstraZeneca vaccine shot.
The magazine cited a letter Clapton wrote describing his ordeal to architect and anti-lockdown activist Robin Monotti Graziadei, who shared it with the guitarist's permission. Rolling Stone said it confirmed the authenticity of the letter — but that a Clapton rep didn't immediately respond to its request for comment.
"I took the first jab of AZ and straight away had severe reactions which lasted ten days," Clapton wrote in the letter, according to the magazine. "I recovered eventually and was told it would be twelve weeks before the second one…"
He added that "about six weeks later I was offered and took the second AZ shot, but with a little more knowledge of the dangers. Needless to say the reactions were disastrous, my hands and feet were either frozen, numb or burning, and pretty much useless for two weeks, I feared I would never play again," Rolling Stone said.
Clapton also shared in the letter that he suffers from "peripheral neuropathy and should never have gone near the needle" and that "the propaganda said the vaccine was safe for everyone," the magazine reported.
"I continue to tread the path of passive rebellion and try to tow [sic] the line in order to be able to actively love my family, but it's hard to bite my tongue with what I now know," the guitarist also wrote, according to Rolling Stone.
'Stand and Deliver'
Clapton hit the headlines late last year for a related reason: an anti-lockdown song "Stand and Deliver" — penned by iconic vocalist Van Morrison and recorded and released by Clapton.
As you might imagine the guitarist took a lot of grief from the left over the tune — as did Morrison.
Stand and Deliver by Eric Clapton - Music from The state51 Conspiracy youtu.be
In the letter, Clapton said "I found my voice" after being directed to Morrison and his new music, the magazine reported.
"And even though I was singing his words, they echoed in my heart," Clapton added in his letter, according to Rolling Stone. "I recorded 'Stand and Deliver' in 2020 and was immediately regaled with contempt and scorn."
The magazine noted that Clapton said in a statement last December that accompanied the song: "There are many of us who support Van and his endeavors to save live music; he is an inspiration. We must stand up and be counted because we need to find a way out of this mess. The alternative is not worth thinking about. Live music might never recover."
According to Rolling Stone, Clapton also wrote in his letter that "I've been a rebel all my life, against tyranny and arrogant authority, which is what we have now. But I also crave fellowship, compassion and love… I believe with these things we can prevail."
Anything else?
Last September, a Northern Ireland health minister labeled Morrison's anti-lockdown songs "dangerous." His tunes — "Born to Be Free," "As I Walked Out," and "No More Lockdown" — reportedly targeted the U.K. government for using COVID-19 lockdowns to "enslave" the people.
And he wasn't through by a long shot.
"Remember, those who are shutting down our economy haven't missed a paycheck since lockdown began," Morrison tweeted to his nearly 66,000 followers in December before adding a mocking zinger. "We are not in this together."Mark Regev, a senior adviser to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, responded to American critics on Sunday, defending Israel's right to defend itself from attacks from Islamic terrorists in the Palestinian territories.
What is the background?
Members of the so-called "Squad" — Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), and Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) — amplified anti-Israel rhetoric last week as Israel continued its military campaign against Hamas terrorists in the Gaza Strip.
Ocasio-Cortez called Israel an "apartheid state," Omar accused Israel of committing acts of terrorism, while Tlaib called Netanyahu the "Apartheid-in-chief" and accused him of "committing war crimes."
Tlaib and Omar even said after Israel and Hamas agreed to a ceasefire that a ceasefire was not enough. Omar, instead, demanded "accountability for every war crime committed." Meanwhile, Tlaib said the U.S. should stop sending aid to Israel if the Jewish nation doesn't "uphold human rights," claiming the ceasefire "will not alone achieve freedom, justice, and equality for all who live under Israel's apartheid government."
What did Regev say?
Speaking on "Fox News Sunday," the top Israeli diplomat dismissed criticism from Democrats, saying they don't represent the views of a majority of Americans.
Regev also reiterated that Hamas is not just an enemy of Israel's — but of the free world.
"I can tell you this morning before coming to this interview, I looked at the polling. And I saw that the overwhelming majority of the American people stand with Israel, support Israel, are favorable toward Israel," Regev said. "A majority of people who identify as Democrats also support Israel or favor Israel."
"People need to understand — Hamas is not just Israel's enemy. Hamas is the enemy of everyone who wants to seek peace and reconciliation in our part of the world. There were brutal jihadist terrorist group," Regev added. "No one should make excuses for them."
When pressed on the issue further — including on criticism from Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), who rebuked Israel for targeting a building that housed an Associated Press bureau and Hamas intelligence offices — Regev further explained why criticism of Israel is unwarranted.
In that building that the senator was concerned about, Hamas had its elite scientific research unit that was working on ways to try to counteract the guiding systems on our rockets. If they would have succeeded, not only couldn't we have shut down incoming rockets coming into Israel to kill our people, but we wouldn't have been able to be surgical in our strikes against Hamas' military machine, so that definitely was a legitimate military target.
That Hamas was using journalists as a human shield shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone but we notify the journalists in advance and I'm happy to tell you that there was not a single civilian casualty from that operation. In fact, from my point of view, it was an Israeli tactical success because we took out a legitimate Hamas target, a dangerous Hamas target and at the same time, not a single innocent civilian was killed. That's a good thing.Police last month told TheBlaze that a white high school student who said she was falsely accused of sending racist messages was not a suspect in the headline-grabbing incident — which the superintendent of White Bear Lake Area Schools in Minnesota had referred to as a "hoax."
Now it turns out — according to police reports obtained through a public records request by the College Fix — the school had stated that a "person of color" created the Instagram account from which the racist messages were sent.
Previously all that officials were willing to say was that the responsible party is a female juvenile, which clouded the origin of the racist messages that spurred a student walkout and protest — and a lot of fear and false accusations.
What's the background?
White Bear Lake Area High School students walked out of school on the morning of April 9 in protest over racist threats sent to several black students from an anonymous Instagram account, the Pioneer Press reported, which added that the messages contained death threats and repeated use of the N-word.
The paper reported in a follow-up story that a female student soon took responsibility for sending the messages, and Superintendent Wayne Kazmierczak said in a letter that the messages were "a hoax sent under false pretense." He added that the student "poses no threat to students of color," the Pioneer Press said.
But the paper said Kazmierczak soon penned a separate letter saying he regretted using the word "hoax" and didn't mean to "minimize the impact that racism or racist acts has on students and families who have been marginalized throughout history and in White Bear Lake Area Schools."
The superintendent also said he would recommend expulsion for the culprit due to violation of the district's bullying and harassment policies, the Pioneer Press added.
At the time police would not comment on the race of the student responsible for the messages, and the school district did not respond to TheBlaze's inquires about the race of the student behind the messages.
But Ellen Hiniker, White Bear Lake's city manager, had said in a statement — which appears to have been taken down but still can be viewed at the Internet Archive — that the "juvenile female" who created the anonymous Instagram account did so "to raise awareness of social and racial injustice due to past incidents that occurred at school."
"It has not yet been determined whether additional individuals contributed to the content of the postings associated with this account," Hiniker added in the statement. "Although the investigation is ongoing, it is important that the information we have at this time be shared to help ease fears associated with this particular incident."
White student said she was falsely accused
As the mystery deepened regarding the identity — and specifically the race — of the individual behind the racist messages, a white student told The Daily Wire she was falsely accused of the act.
Avery Severson, a sophomore at the high school, told the outlet that a black student accused her of sending the racist messages. The Daily Wire said the accusing student, Precious Boahen, shared a screenshot of the messages with the caption, "I bet you a billion bucks this is Avery Severson or one of her friends all mad because they can't have their Turning Point club at school."
More from the outlet:
Severson said that over the past year she has been stonewalled by her school administration in an effort to create a Turning Point USA club. In contrast, Boahen was able to create a black student affinity group with relative ease. Boahen accused Severson of being jealous of her ability to successfully kickstart a club. [...]
Severson told The Daily Wire that she was in a driver's education class on Wednesday, April 7, when the conversations were posted to social media. She denied the accusations and said she would never have made such abhorrent comments. [...]
The Severson family met with White Bear Lake High School administrators who encouraged Severson to remain silent about the situation. Classmates, Severson says, took her silence on the matter as an admission of guilt and threatened her. Severson was escorted to and from classes until April 12.
The outlet said Boahen publicly posted an email she sent to White Bear Lake administrators threatening to spill the story to the media and take legal action.
"If swift and sweeping action is not taken, I will be contacting news outlets to let the public know how [the administration] really operates in this city, and I will be looking for legal action as well," Boahen wrote, according to the Daily Wire.
With that, the high school launched an investigation, the outlet said.
But while White Bear Lake police would not comment on the race of the student responsible for the racist messages, police did confirm to TheBlaze that Severson was not a suspect.
Here's Severson recounting her ordeal to Fox News:
A new revelation
However, police reports obtained through a public records request by the College Fix indicate that the school had stated a "person of color" created the Instagram account from which the racist messages were sent.
The police reports go into detail regarding the investigation, which attempted — through tech forensics and search warrants — to get to the bottom of the identity of the person or persons responsible for sending the racist messages.
And while no names are revealed in the reports, more than one student interviewed by police expressed surprise that the school stated the Instagram account from which the racist messages were sent was created by a "person of color."
For instance, the report notes — in reference to one student interviewed — that "she was baffled by the statement from her school that claimed it was a juvenile person of color who had created the account."
The report also says — in reference to a second student interviewed — that "she also said she was very confused by the statement from the school about the account creator being a person of color."
Police determined where the Instagram account was created after matching the IP address and interviewed a third student who lives at the residence in question. The report said she admitted to creating the account but wouldn't admit to sending the racist messages or reveal the names of others who may have sent the messages who were physically with her at the time as she didn't want to be labeled a "snitch." This was after she initially indicated she knew who was behind the racist messages, police said.
No charges are being pursued in the case, the police report added.Fed up with stringent coronavirus restrictions, some residents of a small county in Michigan's Upper Peninsula are reportedly saying they "identify as fully vaccinated" amid new guidance that allows inoculated people to ditch masks in public.
The updated guidance issued last week by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — which allows for fully vaccinated individuals to "resume activities without wearing a mask or physically distancing" — has inevitably led to some confusion over how to enforce mask and social distancing mandates in public.
And in a region of the country eager to be finished with the pandemic, some are taking advantage of that uncertainty, reported Kerry Ott, public information officer for the Luce, Mackinac, Alger, and Schoolcraft (LMAS) health department, to Michigan Radio.
"A lot of people are using the phrase, 'I identify as fully vaccinated' and taking their masks off," Ott said of Luce County residents. "I'm not kidding ...They're not vaccinated, but they're going to take their masks off."
In a county of 6,600 people where only three have died from the virus, the opportunistic behavior is meeting little resistance from public health authorities.
Ott has reportedly been telling local businesses there's not much they can do beyond making a "good faith" effort.
"We're just repeating what is in the governor's orders. We're not asking for people's [vaccination] cards. We're just asking for them to self attest their vaccination status. And if they say yes, we're telling the businesses, 'Then take them at their word and move forward,'" she said.
In the report, writer Kate Wells paraphrased a famous quote by former President Donald Trump to note that in the Upper Peninsula, and especially in Luce County, it can feel at times like "the cure is worse than the disease."
That sentiment was echoed by Raymond Mahaffey, or "Chef Ray," as locals refer to him, who is one of only 35% in the county who have been vaccinated.
"Ultimately, it'll all work itself out," he said, expressing he's not really worried about the virus anymore. "It's time to let nature take its course."
He added that he thinks the lockdown policies affecting schools and businesses have been too high a price to pay for an illness that is not markedly worse than the flu.
"Can you imagine if they said, 'OK, we're going to close the school for three months, and the kids are going to suffer, because guess what? Somebody got the flu,'" he said. "We got little kids in school that are passing [the virus] around, and they're as healthy as can be, but they've tested positive."
"There is no reason [for this] a year later, with the numbers being so small [here]," he continued. "[The restrictions have] been nothing but political. It's been crazy. And we can't wait to get it over with."Sure, the government won't mandate vaccine passports. They'll just make you prove that you were vaccinated in order to function normally in society. For those who thought they won the battle against coerced vaccination, it's time to realize that it's not just the "private" sector violating federal law by ostensibly mandating an experimental gene agent, the government itself is now doing it, too.
Last Tuesday, the Department of Commerce sent out an email to all employees updating its workplace COVID-19 safety guidance. The email obtained by Blaze Media stated that "fully vaccinated federal employees, onsite contractors, and visitors are no longer required to wear face masks or practice physical distancing while in Department of Commerce (DOC) facilities." However, they warn that "fully vaccinated individuals who wish to remove their face masks and not maintain physical distancing may be required to furnish documentation confirming their vaccination status to their supervisor(s) or others charged with ensuring safety compliance upon request. Appropriate documentation of vaccination status includes an original, a copy, or a photograph of a vaccination document."
In a FAQ memo sent to employees of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA and a DOC agency) on Friday, the agency reiterated that supervisors may ask for proof of vaccination in order not to wear masks or social distance and also encouraged them to report people who refuse to do so.
NOAA COVID-19 Vaccine FAQs.pdf
Thus, with the flick of a pen the government has violated the Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) statute for its own workforce by requiring people to be vaccinated. To say that having to wear a mask indefinitely for eight hours a day is not coercion is nothing short of lunacy. The statute is crystal clear. The same section of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360bbb-3, that authorizes the FDA to even grant Emergency Use Authorization status in the first place also requires the secretary of Health and Human Services to "ensure that individuals to whom the product is administered are informed … of the option to accept or refuse administration of the product."
Perforce, not only must the vaccine remain optional, the government itself must ensure that people know it is indeed optional. Instead, they are doing the opposite by stating that people will either be separated, masked, or discriminated against for not getting the vaccine, regardless of their risk status or if they had the infection already, which has proven to convey greater immunity than the vaccine.
The cruel irony of the vaccine mandate is that the CEOs of Pfizer and Moderna just said that the first people who were vaccinated in December and January will need a "booster" shot in September. So, is this going to become mandatory as well? The vaccine is so effective…that it requires constant reinforcement, something we don't see of natural infection even 17 years after SARS 1.
In an email guidance obtained by TheBlaze, the National Weather Service Employees Organization, the union for NWS employees, explicitly state, "This guidance on not wearing masks only applies to those who have been fully vaccinated. It does not apply to those who have caught COVID and have some level of natural immunity but chose not to get vaccinated." [emphasis in original]
So much for an agency of scientists following the science!
The policy of the Department of Commerce stands at odds with the policy of the Department of Justice (DOJ), which likely better understands how to read a statute. Earlier this month, DOJ sent out a memo stating that "Supervisors and managers should not ask about an employee's vaccination status or use information about an employee's vaccination status to make decisions about how and when employees will report to a workplace instead of teleworking."
The twisted irony of the DOC policy, which is being adopted by many public and private actors, is that they are leveraging a mandate of an experimental device with the force of a mask mandate, which in itself, must remain optional because it was approved by the FDA last year under an Emergency Use Authorization. As I warned, once we acceded to mask mandates without strong legal and political counteractions, we paved the road for the ruling class to violate the EUA conditions for vaccination as well.
Health privacy, respect for disabilities, and equal treatment used to be sacrilege for liberals. Title III of the ADA, which states, "Public accommodations must comply with basic nondiscrimination requirements that prohibit exclusion, segregation, and unequal treatment," has been used zealously against businesses who ever tried to discriminate based on health states.
In this case, with everyone who wants to be vaccinated having had that protection for months, it is irrational to force it upon those who don't want it. In a 1990 AIDS discrimination case, a district court ruled [740 f supp 95 (D.P.R 1990)] that denial of a special permit to an AIDS Center based on "irrational unfounded fears" was improper.
As it stands today, there is no evidence masks work, there is no evidence vaccinated people are in danger from those not vaccinated (and if so, are somehow protected by masks), and that vaccines convey a greater degree of immunity than natural infection. Nor is there any rational legal basis for continuing to treat healthy people at this stage as if they have the virus for the rest of their lives.
Title III of the Civil Rights Act [ 28 CFR § 36.208] states clearly that "In determining whether an individual poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others, a public accommodation must make an individualized assessment, based on reasonable judgment that relies on current medical knowledge or on the best available objective evidence, to ascertain." These factors include, "the nature, duration, and severity of the risk; the probability that the potential injury will actually occur; and whether reasonable modifications of policies, practices, or procedures or the provision of auxiliary aids or services will mitigate the risk."
Forcing every human being to either inject an experimental gene therapy in their body or wear a mask all day – regardless of their symptoms, whether they had the virus, and for how long – is absolutely unreasonable. It treats breathing as a privilege, not as a right. Moreover, the potential for injury at the hands of an unvaccinated person, by their own measure of the efficacy of the vaccines for those who got the shots, is zero.
Then again, we were never a nation of laws. We were always a nation of political will to enforce the laws we believed in. The question is if we still have any political will to stand for the most basic human rights.Three researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology became sick enough with COVID-like symptoms in November 2019 that they required hospitalization, according to a damning American intelligence report.
The intelligence, which was first reported by the Wall Street Journal on Sunday, adds weight to the Wuhan lab leak theory, which suggests the COVID-19 pandemic originated inside China's only Biosafety level-4 laboratory.
What are the details?
The intelligence is particularly significant because it suggests COVID-19 was spreading in China much earlier than China has admitted. China's communist government traced patient-zero to a man who became sick on Dec. 8. But if researchers at the Wuhan lab were hospitalized one month prior, the virus was likely spreading even earlier than previously believed.
One official familiar with the intelligence described it as "of exquisite quality."
"The information that we had coming from the various sources was of exquisite quality. It was very precise. What it didn't tell you was exactly why they got sick," the official told the Journal.
Another official told the Journal that while the intelligence was potentially significant, it needed further corroboration to be definitive.
The intelligence corroborates a fact sheet released by the State Department in the final days of the Trump administration, which cited classified intelligence and suggested COVID-19 may have escaped from the Wuhan lab via infected researchers.
That report said, "U.S. government has reason to believe that several researchers inside the WIV became sick in autumn 2019, before the first identified case of the outbreak, with symptoms consistent with both Covid-19 and seasonal illnesses."
How did China respond?
China's Foreign Ministry bucked the intelligence, and continued to suggest COVID-19 originated in the United States.
"The U.S. continues to hype the lab leak theory," the foreign ministry told the Journal. "Is it actually concerned about tracing the source or trying to divert attention?"
China's communist government has infamously refused transparency with investigations surrounding the pandemic's origins.
"The Wuhan Institute hasn't shared raw data, safety logs and lab records on its extensive work with coronaviruses in bats, which many consider the most likely source of the virus," the Journal noted.
China has pointed to wet markets in Wuhan as the source of the pandemic.
What did the US government say?
A spokeswoman for the National Security Council reiterated concerns about the pandemic's origins, but declined to comment further.
"We continue to have serious questions about the earliest days of the Covid-19 pandemic, including its origins within the People's Republic of China," the spokeswoman said. "We're not going to make pronouncements that prejudge an ongoing WHO study into the source of SARS-CoV-2. As a matter of policy we never comment on intelligence issues."
Anything else?
The Wuhan lab leak theory has been widely denounced as a conspiracy theory despite a lack of evidence disproving the possibility.
In fact, aside from equally plausible origination theories, only the World Health Organization has said it was "extremely unlikely" COVID-19 came from the laboratory. But their conclusion came after a rushed investigation in which access to critical data was tightly controlled by Chinese authorities.
Indeed, 18 high-profile scientists published a letter this month calling for more investigations into the lab leak theory, saying, "Theories of accidental release from a lab and zoonotic spillover both remain viable."
The group even responded to the WHO's conclusion, which they rebuked because, as they explained, the WHO did not give the Wuhan lab leak theory "balanced consideration," writing, "Only 4 of the 313 pages of the report and its annexes addressed the possibility of a laboratory accident."
Dr. Anthony Fauci, the White House chief medical adviser, also said this month that he is no longer convinced COVID-19 originated naturally.Parents and students at an elite $47,000-a-year private school in New York are "shocked and mortified" about a "porn literacy" class that was added to the curriculum without their knowledge. The risqué course for juniors at Manhattan's prestigious Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School introduced teens to adult-themed topics such as "kink and BDSM."
Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School on the Upper West Side was founded in 1764, and is the oldest nonsectarian independent school in New York City. In 2015, Business Insider named the institution as one of the "9 most elite prep schools in New York City." Former President Donald Trump's son Barron attended the distinguished school. Now, the school is being condemned for the new porn literacy class that some say is indoctrinating kids.
Students aged between 16 and 17 attended a health and sexuality workshop, which most believed would be a sex-ed class. Instead, the teens were educated on everything about porn. The course, which was officially titled "Pornography Literacy: An intersectional focus on mainstream porn," featured a list of the most-searched porn terms in 2019.
"The often-explicit slide presentation and lecture by Fonte to the 120 boys and girls included lessons on how porn takes care of 'three big male vulnerabilities;' statistics on the 'orgasm gap' showing straight women have far fewer orgasms with their partners than gay men or women; and photos of partially-nude women, some in bondage, to analyze 'what is porn and what is art,'" according to the New York Post.
One of the topics taught to the teen girls and boys in the course was the "marketability of OnlyFans," which is the subscription app where adults sell nude and explicit images and videos of themselves.
The porn class was taught by Justine Ang Fonte, the director of Health & Wellness at another elite prep school, Dalton. Fonte's website boasts that she has "reveled in disrupting health education for 10 years."
"We were all like, 'What?'" a female student told the Post. "Everyone was texting each other, 'What the hell is this? It's so stupid.' Everyone knows about porn. The worst part of it was that it took place not long before the AP tests and I had to miss both my AP classes for this."
"We were all so shocked and mortified," another female student said. "We were all like, 'Why are they doing this? Why do they think it's OK?'"
The course was taught remotely over Zoom, which may have tipped off concerned parents.
"It's outrageous that the school is introducing pornography into a mainstream classroom and starting to indoctrinate kids. The goal of this is to disrupt families," one parent said, and asked, "Why is the school making porn a priority as opposed to physics, art, literature or poetry?"
"No one wants to be canceled or lose their livelihood and that can be done in an instant," a mother of one of the students said. "Most parents feel the same way I do about not going public but at the same time we're incredibly frustrated by what's going on. None of the parents knew this was planned. We were completely left in the dark. It makes us wonder what else the school is up to."
Dr. William M. Donohue, the head of Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School, issued an email apologizing about the pornographic class at the elite prep school.
"The content and tone of the presentation did not represent our philosophy, which is to educate our students in ways that promote their personal development and overall health, as well as to express respect for them as individuals," Donohue said.
"It was unfortunate that we did not better inform ourselves of the speaker's specific content in advance," Donohue added. "In this case, the speaker did not align with our unique CGPS mission and for this, I apologize… Going forward we will certainly learn from this experience."Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer (D) was caught over the weekend violating her own COVID-19 pandemic restrictions when she was photographed eating at a restaurant with more people than her latest pandemic restrictions allow.
What are the details?
Breitbart News obtained a photo showing Whitmer at a bar in East Lansing with a dozen other people in violation of her own COVID-related restrictions.
Breitbart reported:
Whitmer and a large group of friends, including her appointed chief operations officer, Tricia Foster, visited the Landshark in East Lansing, violating her restaurant orders in the process, according to a photo one of the attendees posted on Facebook. The photo, posted Saturday, was part of a montage. Shortly after, Whitmer's friend deleted the collage and reposted it sans the governor and one of her top aides.
Image source: Breitbart News
Whitmer issued updated COVID guidance just one week before she violated her own rules.
On May 15, Whitmer issued restrictions prohibiting indoor dining at restaurants by parties of more than six people and by groups of people who "intermingle."
"Gatherings are prohibited at food service establishments, whether indoor or outdoor, unless: Consumption of food or beverages is permitted only in a designated dining area where patrons are seated, groups of patrons are separated by at least 6 feet, no more than 6 patrons are seated together (at a table, booth, or group of fixed seats), and groups of patrons do not intermingle," the restrictions said.
How did Whitmer respond?
Her office promptly responded to growing backlash online by admitting that, yeah, Whitmer broke her own rules.
"Throughout the pandemic, I've been committed to following public health protocols. Yesterday, I went with friends to a local restaurant. As more people arrived, the tables were pushed together," Whitmer said. "Because we were all vaccinated, we didn't stop to think about it."
"In retrospect, I should have thought about it," she added. "I am human. I made a mistake, and I apologize."
Just last month, Whitmer also faced accusations of hypocrisy stemming from a trip to Florida earlier this year, despite blaming travel to and from the Sunshine State for a COVID outbreak in her state.
Whitmer has since been hit with an ethics complaint over her use of a private jet at a greatly discounted rate for her travel to Florida.President Joe Biden is skipping the University of Notre Dame's 2021 commencement on Sunday. Biden, the second Roman Catholic president, was invited but said he couldn't attend due to a scheduling conflict, according to the Catholic News Agency . Had Biden attended the ceremony, he would have received an honorary degree from the school. Instead, finance executive and trustee of the university Jimmy Dunne will address the graduates.
The president forgoing the ceremony at the prestigious institution breaks a 20-year tradition of either the president or the vice president attending the Notre Dame commencement in their first year in office. President George W. Bush gave the commencement address in 2001, President Barack Obama delivered the address in 2009, and Vice President Mike Pence spoke at the ceremony in 2017, according to Fox News. Presidents John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump did not address Notre Dame's commencement. It was not clear if Notre Dame invited Vice President Kamala Harris.
Despite being invited, Biden would not have been welcomed by everyone at Notre Dame. There were over 4,300 "members of the Notre Dame community" who signed a petition to urge Notre Dame president Rev. John Jenkins not to invite Biden to the commencement because of the president's pro-abortion policies.
The petition said the students and alumni of Notre Dame are "dismayed by the pro-abortion and anti-religious liberty agenda of President Joe Biden."
The petition reads, "Catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamental moral principles."
"He rejects Church teachings on abortion, marriage, sex and gender and is hostile to religious liberty," the petition says of the president. "He embraces the most pro-abortion and anti-religious liberty public policy program in history."
The petition lists Biden's actions that "threaten grievous harm to the Church, Notre Dame, Catholics and other persons of faith, and the unborn," including funding of Planned Parenthood and the "Equality Act."
In January, the president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops denounced Biden over his stance on abortion, marriage, and gender.
"I must point out that our new President has pledged to pursue certain policies that would advance moral evils and threaten human life and dignity, most seriously in the areas of abortion, contraception, marriage, and gender," José Horacio Gomez said of Biden. "Of deep concern is the liberty of the Church and the freedom of believers to live according to their consciences."Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) declared Sunday that he will not receive a COVID-19 vaccination, immediately triggering mockery online from critics who believe Paul's remarks are not responsible.
What did Paul say?
Speaking with radio host John Catsimatidis, Paul revealed he will not get vaccinated because he contracted COVID-19 last year, which theoretically gives him immunity from the virus.
"Until they show me evidence that people who have already had the infection are dying in large numbers, or being hospitalized or getting very sick, I just made my own personal decision that I'm not getting vaccinated because I've already had the disease and I have natural immunity," Paul said, the New York Post reported.
Paul later added that receiving a vaccine should be a personal decision, not one made for them by government agencies.
"In a free country, you would think people would honor the idea that each individual would get to make the medical decision, that it wouldn't be a big brother coming to tell me what I have to do," Paul said.
"Are they also going to tell me I can't have a cheeseburger for lunch? Are they going to tell me that I have to eat carrots only and cut my calories?" he continued. "All that would probably be good for me, but I don't think big brother ought to tell me to do it."
Paul earned an M.D. degree from Duke University's School of Medicine in 1988. He is a licensed ophthalmologist.
What was the reaction?
Paul's critics condemned him, mocked him, and some detractors even praised Paul's neighbor, who brutally attacked in 2017.
"I'll say it again: If I ever meet Rand Paul's neighbor I'm going to hug him and buy him as many drinks as he can consume," famed singer Richard Marx said.
"So brave...Such a leader... so manly..." Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) mocked.
"Wish Rand Paul's grandparents/great grandparents had felt the same about their smallpox vaccines. The world could have done without their offspring," one person said.
"My understanding of Rand Paul's neighbor grows exponentially every time he opens his mouth," another person reacted.
"Rand Paul, the Senate's village idiot, refuses to get vaccinated Is he aware that his orange cow god, who also contracted Covid, willingly got the vaccine?" another person said.
"Rand Paul is proving that you can do anything you want in life no matter how unqualified you are," one person said.
"Rand Paul is a f***ing asshole but his neighbor is a hero," another person said.
"'Rand Paul's neighbor' is named Rene Boucher. Raise your hand if you'd support making 'Patriot's Day' a Federal Holiday and observing it on Rene Boucher's Birthday!" one person said of Paul's neighbor.
"Parents, don't let your kids grow up to become curly-headed anti-vaxxer idiots like Rand Paul," another person said.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that people who tested positive still get vaccinated.
"Yes, you should be vaccinated regardless of whether you already had COVID-19," the agency says. "That's because experts do not yet know how long you are protected from getting sick again after recovering from COVID-19. Even if you have already recovered from COVID-19, it is possible—although rare—that you could be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19 again."Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has pledged to sign a bill that would raise the penalties for protesters who purposely obstruct emergency vehicles from passing through a roadway or a hospital entrance.
The Texas Senate voted 25-5 to pass House Bill 9, which would make it a state jail felony to knowingly obstructing a highway or other passageway and preventing an emergency vehicle that is flashing lights and sirens from passing, as well as obstructing the entrance to a health care facility that provides emergency medical care. The Texas House had already passed the bill by a vote of 90-55.
On Saturday, Abbott made it be known that he would be signing HB 9 into law when it arrives at his desk.
"Legislation cracking down on protestors for blocking roads PASSES in the Senate," the Republican governor of Texas announced on Twitter. "Peaceful protest doesn't include blocking roadways & preventing emergency vehicle access. That chaos won't be tolerated in Texas. Thanks to @StephanieKlick & @DonnaCampbellTX. I will sign soon."
"In an emergency, seconds matter," state Rep. Stephanie Klick said when first presenting HB 9. "We all have a constitutional right to peaceably assemble under the First Amendment, but what we don't have is a right to prevent authorized emergency vehicles that can provide life saving care."
The bill is a response to last summer's social justice and police brutality protests that at times manifested into full-scale riots.
In April, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis signed into law a new anti-rioting bill.
The "Combating Public Disorder" law criminalizes "mob intimidation" tactics, such as rioters accosting people at restaurants, plus it would increase penalties for rioting, looting, and violence stemming from protests. The law also provides legal protections to motorists fleeing for their safety from angry mobs.
"We saw unprecedented rioting throughout 2020," DeSantis said. "We wanted to make sure we protect the people of our great state, businesses and property against any type of mob activity. We're here today being prepared to sign that bill into law."MSNBC host Tiffany Cross proclaimed Saturday that she is willing to undertake the "the most radical" of solutions to fix what she believes is a problem with police brutality and racist law enforcement.
Cross was reacting to the recently released video of Ronald Greene, a Louisiana man who died in 2019 while in police custody.
The New York Times reported Friday:
The death of Ronald Greene after a police chase in Louisiana in 2019 is attracting new scrutiny after the publication of police body camera footage that appears to show a starkly different version of events than the one given by the Louisiana State Police.
What did Cross say?
Speaking on her MSNBC show, Cross declared that it's "time to burn it down," referring to what she and many activists believe is a problematic criminal justice system.
"I am outraged, and exhausted, and angry. That video is practically unwatchable. And I think about that man's family, and his mother, and what they must be going through," Cross said.
"And I just wonder— this is clearly not a system that can be reformed, and I just— what can we do to stop this? Because it feels like it's just time to burn it down, you know?" she continued. "We ask, please stop killing us. It hasn't happened. At this point it's a demand and it's still happening."
Later, Cross admitted she is "up for the most radical of things" to prevent more black people from being killed by police.
I don't even know the words to describe the level of outrage I feel thinking about what this man's— his mother had to watch that tape. You've organized all over the country. I am so ready for this fight. I am so ready for this fight, because I don't want to see another person go through that. How do we organize ourselves out of this quagmire? They're attacking our voting rights. They're attacking our lives and livelihoods. They're killing us if they're not over-criminalizing us and putting us in jail. As a longtime organizer what is it that we do?
Because I have to say, as a people, for my people, I am up for the most radical of things to make sure that we live.
Anything else?
Last summer, activists already tried to "burn it down." Riots characterized the summer months in major cities nationwide following the death of George Floyd.
Initially, support for activist groups like Black Lives Matter increased. But the BLM movement has since plummeted following months of violent unrest.Unsilenced Majority is a conservative non-profit 'fighting back against the woke mob and their enablers.' Its founder and president, Mike Davis, joined Glenn Beck on radio this week to explain how he grew tired of cancel culture and its ability to silence Americans who dare to speak out against the far-left's Marxist ideology. But how can the right fight back against cancel culture without becoming it?
Watch the video below to find out what Davis' organization is doing to ensure the freedom and voices of ALL Americans survive for decades to come:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.The president of the second-largest teachers union in the United States got slammed for recently saying that teachers are "tired and exhausted," despite being at home for months. American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten also said that "we have to find a way to repair and nourish" teachers, which was lampooned by online commenters.
Weingarten appeared on MSNBC Friday night, where she attempted to persuade viewers that the AFT wants to reopen schools, despite having yet to commit to in-person learning in the fall.
"Number one we want schools to reopen for a rapport and we don't want outbreaks," Weingarten said. "We want schools open and we want them to stay open."
But Weingarten said that teachers "don't want to be the mask police," adding that Texas and Iowa made a politically motivated decision to "rush to say no mask mandates when we still don't have a vaccine that's okay for elementary school students."
"Well there's two plans: one is for the summer and one is for the fall," the union boss of 1.7 million members said. "In the fall we have to first and foremost create a safe and welcoming environment."
Weingarten attempted to garner sympathy for teachers.
"Teachers are tired; they are exhausted," she said. "We have to find a way to repair and nourish them as well as families in terms of attracting and retaing our teaching force."
Online commenters mocked Weingarten's comments about teachers being "exhausted."
"Let's try this, Randi. STUDENTS are tired; they are exhausted. They've been put on the back burner by teachers unions for over a year so a virus could be used for political power gains. And MONEY. And pushing CRT so they can be told their skin color is all that matters.Shameful."
"From what? Sitting our your asses on Zoom? People have had it with your no work, whining nonsense."
"Why do public school teachers think they're so special? Parents and students not exhausted and tired too. medical workers and grocery store workers need to be nourished and repaired too. You. Aren't. Special."
"Poor teachers. Where I live in Oregon they got vaccinated before 80+ months ago, and many are still not back at school. My kids are getting 2 hours twice a week in person. When it was Zoom it was 2 hours 4 days a week. They must be so exhausted. I hope the teachers are ok."
"Having a whole year off must be exhausting!"
"Straight talk: Schools should not have closed this year. What was always clear is now *crystal* clear. Accountability for the high costs of closures to children is beyond-fair."
"If you don't actively scorn teacher's unions by this point, you're not paying attention."
Weingarten, who has a reported salary of around $500,000, has recently been attempting to change the perception that she is a proponent of reopening schools thanks to the help of Democratic figures, including first lady Jill Biden and Education Secretary Miguel Cardona.
On May 18, Weingarten appeared on C-SPAN, where frustrated parents grilled the AFT boss for refusing to reopen schools.
One upset parent astutely asked Weingarten, "How come the parochial schools and the private schools could navigate their way through this scenario, but the public schools didn't seem to be able to manage that?"
Weingarten's answer via Reason:
So this is part of the reason why we asked the last administration to collect data on all of these things. So there were many many many public schools that have been open in a hybrid manner or in a full-time manner since September. And there have been many private schools, and many parochial schools [open]. And there have been many private and parochial schools that were not open. But we don't have the data, we have the anecdotal data. Fifteen percent, for example—a piece of data that I just got a couple of weeks ago—fifteen percent of parochial and private schools have closed fully during this period of time.
Many of the private schools that I know when I started asking them the questions about how are they doing this because we have to learn from each other, they said that they got the PPP loans that was in one of the first COVID packages so that they could do the testing that I just talked about, and they could do the layers of mitigation. And they also had parents, in a couple of the private schools, they had parents who shelled out a lot more money to do that. And the parochial schools, we saw some extra space that got used in those kind of ways.
And frankly, some of us also, you know, said that every one of the schools, you know, who were serving poor people had to get additional funding, and I got criticized by my, you know, public education friends for doing that. This is a matter of we have to learn from each other. But at the end of the day, if you have a ventilation system that doesn't work, if you don't have soap and water in your schools, if you can't get soap and water, and you need to have, you know, you need to wash kids, everyone needs to wash their hands, perhaps sanitizing stations, all of those things were resource-based things that were really important.
Earlier this month, Weingarten implied that Fox News and former President Donald Trump were at fault as to why schools are not reopened now.
Weingarten's AFT has been scrutinized for its cozy relationship with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Damning emails between AFT officials and the CDC suggest that the teachers union successfully lobbied the CDC on the health agency's reopening guidance and language.
AFT donated nearly $20 million to Democrats in 2020, according to watchdog The Center Square.Unsilenced Majority is a conservative non-profit 'fighting back against the woke mob and their enablers.' Its founder and president, Mike Davis, joined Glenn Beck on radio this week to explain how he grew tired of cancel culture and its ability to silence Americans who dare to speak out against the far-left's Marxist ideology. But how can the right fight back against cancel culture without becoming it?
Watch the video below to find out what Davis' organization is doing to ensure the freedom and voices of ALL Americans survive for decades to come:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.The president of the second-largest teachers union in the United States got slammed for recently saying that teachers are "tired and exhausted," despite being at home for months. American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten also said that "we have to find a way to repair and nourish" teachers, which was lampooned by online commenters.
Weingarten appeared on MSNBC Friday night, where she attempted to persuade viewers that the AFT wants to reopen schools, despite having yet to commit to in-person learning in the fall.
"Number one we want schools to reopen for a rapport and we don't want outbreaks," Weingarten said. "We want schools open and we want them to stay open."
But Weingarten said that teachers "don't want to be the mask police," adding that Texas and Iowa made a politically motivated decision to "rush to say no mask mandates when we still don't have a vaccine that's okay for elementary school students."
"Well there's two plans: one is for the summer and one is for the fall," the union boss of 1.7 million members said. "In the fall we have to first and foremost create a safe and welcoming environment."
Weingarten attempted to garner sympathy for teachers.
"Teachers are tired; they are exhausted," she said. "We have to find a way to repair and nourish them as well as families in terms of attracting and retaing our teaching force."
Online commenters mocked Weingarten's comments about teachers being "exhausted."
"Let's try this, Randi. STUDENTS are tired; they are exhausted. They've been put on the back burner by teachers unions for over a year so a virus could be used for political power gains. And MONEY. And pushing CRT so they can be told their skin color is all that matters.Shameful."
"From what? Sitting our your asses on Zoom? People have had it with your no work, whining nonsense."
"Why do public school teachers think they're so special? Parents and students not exhausted and tired too. medical workers and grocery store workers need to be nourished and repaired too. You. Aren't. Special."
"Poor teachers. Where I live in Oregon they got vaccinated before 80+ months ago, and many are still not back at school. My kids are getting 2 hours twice a week in person. When it was Zoom it was 2 hours 4 days a week. They must be so exhausted. I hope the teachers are ok."
"Having a whole year off must be exhausting!"
"Straight talk: Schools should not have closed this year. What was always clear is now *crystal* clear. Accountability for the high costs of closures to children is beyond-fair."
"If you don't actively scorn teacher's unions by this point, you're not paying attention."
Weingarten, who has a reported salary of around $500,000, has recently been attempting to change the perception that she is a proponent of reopening schools thanks to the help of Democratic figures, including first lady Jill Biden and Education Secretary Miguel Cardona.
On May 18, Weingarten appeared on C-SPAN, where frustrated parents grilled the AFT boss for refusing to reopen schools.
One upset parent astutely asked Weingarten, "How come the parochial schools and the private schools could navigate their way through this scenario, but the public schools didn't seem to be able to manage that?"
Weingarten's answer via Reason:
So this is part of the reason why we asked the last administration to collect data on all of these things. So there were many many many public schools that have been open in a hybrid manner or in a full-time manner since September. And there have been many private schools, and many parochial schools [open]. And there have been many private and parochial schools that were not open. But we don't have the data, we have the anecdotal data. Fifteen percent, for example—a piece of data that I just got a couple of weeks ago—fifteen percent of parochial and private schools have closed fully during this period of time.
Many of the private schools that I know when I started asking them the questions about how are they doing this because we have to learn from each other, they said that they got the PPP loans that was in one of the first COVID packages so that they could do the testing that I just talked about, and they could do the layers of mitigation. And they also had parents, in a couple of the private schools, they had parents who shelled out a lot more money to do that. And the parochial schools, we saw some extra space that got used in those kind of ways.
And frankly, some of us also, you know, said that every one of the schools, you know, who were serving poor people had to get additional funding, and I got criticized by my, you know, public education friends for doing that. This is a matter of we have to learn from each other. But at the end of the day, if you have a ventilation system that doesn't work, if you don't have soap and water in your schools, if you can't get soap and water, and you need to have, you know, you need to wash kids, everyone needs to wash their hands, perhaps sanitizing stations, all of those things were resource-based things that were really important.
Earlier this month, Weingarten implied that Fox News and former President Donald Trump were at fault as to why schools are not reopened now.
Weingarten's AFT has been scrutinized for its cozy relationship with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Damning emails between AFT officials and the CDC suggest that the teachers union successfully lobbied the CDC on the health agency's reopening guidance and language.
AFT donated nearly $20 million to Democrats in 2020, according to watchdog The Center Square.When tensions flared between Israel and Palestine two weeks ago, the Biden administration reportedly made requests of Israel that mirrored demands from Hamas terrorists, who have controlled the Gaza Strip since 2007.
What is the background?
Growing tensions between Israelis and Palestinians boiled over on May 10 when Hamas began firing missiles at Israel.
Prior to the military escalation, Hamas had demanded Israel remove their security forces from and the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, which sits on the Temple Mount, a site holy to Jews and Muslims.
Israeli security forces only entered the compound after increasing violence from Palestinian activists. "Anger had been mounting for weeks among Palestinians ahead of a now-delayed Israeli court ruling on whether authorities were able to evict dozens of Palestinians from the Old City's Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood and give their homes to Jewish settlers," the Guardian reported.
What did the Biden admin tell Israel?
As tensions escalated at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound, top Biden administration officials reportedly spoke with their Israeli counterparts and made three demands of Israel.
The demands included canceling evictions in the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood and canceling the annual Jerusalem Day flag parade.
Axios reported:
[W]ith tensions escalating fast, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan had called his Israeli counterpart, Meir Ben-Shabbat, while Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman spoke to the director general of the Israeli foreign ministry, Alon Ushpiz.
The Biden administration had three immediate demands of Israel: stop the evictions in Sheikh Jarrah, lower tensions on the Temple Mount and cancel the annual Jerusalem Day flag parade, during which Israeli nationalists celebrate the unification of Jerusalem under Israeli control.
Israel reportedly rejected U.S. requests, though, as Axios noted, it appeared that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attempted to thwart further escalation.
"[Netanyahu] asked the Supreme Court to postpone its verdict on the evictions, banned visits by Jews to the Temple Mount and rerouted the flag parade so it wouldn't pass through the Muslim quarter of Jerusalem's Old City," Axios reported.
What were Hamas' demands?
A Hamas spokesperson told Newsweek their goal in attacking Israel was "to have the Israeli occupation authorities accept our demands."
Those demands included "giving free access to worshipers from all parts of Palestine to pray at Al Aqsa Mosque without restriction or harassment by the Israeli police or the Israeli settlers and halting the attempts to expel the Palestinian residents of Sheikh Jarrah," the Hamas spokesperson told the media outlet.
An Israeli official reportedly responded to the demands by explaining they were "already and partially the policy of Israel," as indicated by Axios' report.
Israeli and Palestinian officials finally came to a ceasefire agreement that began last Friday morning.Florida police are investigating an alleged hate-fueled incident where a group of young men terrorized a Jewish family, who were visiting from Teaneck, New Jersey. The men shouted anti-Semitic threats at the family, but stopped the intimidating harassment when a man with a gun intervened, according to several reports.
Eric Orgen and his family were visiting Bal Harbour, located a few miles north of Miami Beach. Orgen, his wife Karen, his 16-year-old daughter, and Mark Schwartz, the deputy mayor of Teaneck, had just left a synagogue in the area and were walking on the sidewalk of Collins Avenue.
Four men said to be in their 20s in a white SUV allegedly drove up to the family and began screaming anti-Semitic remarks, "F*** you, Jew" and "Die Jew." They also said they were going to rape his wife and daughter, according to a Facebook post written by Orgen. The group reportedly threw garbage and a water bottle at the family while yelling, "Free Palestine!"
"They just started screaming some derogatory things towards Jewish people out the window," Orgen told WPEC-TV. "My first thought was just making sure my wife and daughter were behind me so I could take the brunt of anything that was going to happen."
A driver of an Audi was right behind the SUV and allegedly witnessed the hateful harassment. The motorist, who was armed, got out of his car and "pulled his gun to protect us and chased them as they drove away," Orgen claimed. "So thankful that a total stranger stepped up to protect us!"
Orgen reported the incident to local law enforcement, which is investigating the alleged incident.
"It's a scary world we live in but the world is big enough for everyone to live peacefully. We all bleed red," Orgen told WSVN-TV, adding that he believed the incident was a hate crime.
Bal Harbour Mayor Gabriel Groisman issued a statement on the reported incident.
"Bal Harbour Police Department is actively investigating the incident, and I am confident that they will track down the perpetrators," Groisman wrote on Facebook. "We have ZERO TOLERANCE for criminal conduct in our municipality, and we will do everything in our power to keep all residents and visitors in Bal Harbour safe."
Miami-Dade Mayor Daniella Levine Cava issued a statement regarding recent anti-Semitic incidents in South Florida that began following the commencement of the most recent Israel-Gaza conflict.
"Acts of hate and violence against any community are not tolerated in Miami-Dade County," Cava said. "Hate and intolerance contradict the foundations of our community – a place where so many generations of people found a safe home after fleeing their own countries to build a new life with their families."
"As a member of the Jewish community and the first Jewish Mayor of Miami-Dade, acts of antisemitism in our County cut especially close to home," she continued. "They also deepen my commitment to ensure Miami-Dade remains a place where all people are welcomed, respected, and made to feel at home, regardless of where they come from or their faith."
On May 14, Miami police arrested Joseph Bounds, who was driving a van that was covered in anti-Semitic slurs and swastikas disrupting a pro-Israel rally in Boca Raton. The vehicle flew Palestinian flags, and had hateful remarks such as "Jews killed Jesus," "Jews are not white," "vax the Jews," and "Hitler was right." There were at least six men raising their arms in the Nazi salute, according to the Miami Herald.
Miami police arrested Bounds, who is from Denver, for refusing to obey police orders during a traffic stop.A New York City middle school principal is under fire for telling teachers and administrators to "take action" against Israel and make a "public commitment to Palestinian liberation." Principal Amanda Bueno emailed staffers at MS 136 in Brooklyn a list of actions they should take to support Palestine in the most recent Israel-Gaza conflict.
The email in question, which is titled "Day of Action in Solidarity with The Palestinian Uprising & General Strike," urged teachers to demand sanctions on Israel from U.S. government officials.
"Yesterday was the Day of Action in Solidarity with the Palestinian Uprising & General Strike. If you have been watching the news in absolute horror, you are not alone," Bueno began the email, which was published by the New York Post.
"You can take action today by protesting, attending a vigil, making a public commitment to Palestinian Liberation, signing a petition, or calling your government officials to place sanctions on Israel," Bueno wrote on Wednesday morning.
"The time is now to take a stand for those impacted by state-sanctioned violence and crimes against the humanity of the most vulnerable in our world," the email read. "We need not prove their humanity and right to exist for us to spread awareness about these issues. Empathy is the bare minimum."
The email included a list of links and resources to enable teachers to take action against Israel and support Palestinians.
"Here are some notes and resources from the Institute for Anti-Racist Education," the principal wrote.
She included a link to the "Teach Palestine" website and an article titled "'American Taxpayer Money Is Being Used To Commit Human Rights Violations' In Israel, Says Rep. Rashida Tlaib."
An MS 136 teacher, who is Jewish, told the New York Post, "I opened the email and I was in shock. I felt very targeted and very attacked by her words."
"These resources she provided, it's propaganda," the teacher added. "There was nothing in the email about Hamas rockets targeting innocent Israeli civilians."
Lawyer Inna Vernikov sent a letter to the New York Department of Education calling for Bueno to be punished.
"New York law forbids requesting or encouraging any public servant, city employee, or subordinate public servant/employee to engage in political activities," Vernikov wrote.
StopAntisemitism.org, a non-profit foundation that "works to hold antisemites accountable," stated, "NY law forbids encouraging any public servant or city employee from engaging in politics. This didn't stop Brooklyn Middle School 136 Principal Amanda Bueno from sending out a school wide email titled 'Day of Action in Solidarity with The Palestinian Uprising & General Strike.'"
New York City Schools Chancellor Meisha Porter said Bueno made "a clear exercise of poor judgment."
"The MS 136 principal must apologize for her email," Porter tweeted. "This was a clear exercise of poor judgment & we will take appropriate follow-up action. We must teach complex current events without bringing our political activities or beliefs into the classroom."
Nathaniel Steyer, a spokesman for the Department of Education, said, "The matter is being addressed internally and was referred to [the special commissioner of investigation] for further investigation."
"Schools are not public forums for purposes of political expression, and staff may not use DOE resources in the furtherance of personal or political activities," Steyer added.The one-year anniversary of the death of George Floyd occurs next week on May 25. Following the deaths of Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery last year, support for Black Lives Matter skyrocketed.
However, just as fast as the support for Black Lives Matter soared, the backing of the movement quickly plummeted, according to analysis from the New York Times.
The so-called "newspaper of record" investigated the sudden and startling decline in support for Black Lives Matter, but did not make any mention of the riots that burned American cities for months, which often spawned from BLM protests.
"Notably, support for the movement peaked in the immediate aftermath of George Floyd's death and then swiftly declined," the New York Times article read. The decline was so significant that "Republicans and white people have actually become less supportive of Black Lives Matter than they were before the death of George Floyd — a trend that seems unlikely to reverse anytime soon."
The article, which was written by Jennifer Chudy and Hakeem Jefferson, noted that Republicans had supported the Black Lives Matter movement shortly after Floyd's death, which shocked the authors because they label the Republican Party as "often characterized by its racial insensitivity and antagonism toward racial minorities."
"The reason for the drop seems to be shifting attitudes among Republicans and white Americans, two large and often overlapping groups," the NYT said.
"Some have wondered whether support for B.L.M., especially among white people, is genuine or merely virtue-signaling," the authors suggested.
Nowhere in the New York Times article is the word "riot" found. Since Floyd's death, there were regular riots across 140 U.S. cities. The looting and property damage from the riots, many of which were carried out by BLM supporters, are estimated to be the "most expensive in insurance history." The riots result in at least $1 billion to $2 billion of paid insurance claims, according to data released in September.
Online commenters were quick to point out reasons why support for Black Lives Matter abruptly and massively tarnished. Twitter users noted that support crashed because of fiery riots often linked to the movement, and several scandals involving the Black Lives Matter organization, including the group being run by "trained Marxists," one of which went on a "real estate buying binge." Despite raising a reported $90 million in 2020, Black Lives Matter chapters allege the organization doesn't support them financially. One BLM chapter was called a "fraud" by Breonna Taylor's mother.
"Relatable" podcast host Allie Beth Stuckey stated, "Riots, murder and anarchy will do that."
Washington Examiner reporter Jerry Dunleavy wrote, "The drop in support for BLM probably has a lot to do with the true idea that black lives matter being juxtaposed with the violence & rioting that accompanied many BLM protests nationwide last year as well as the BLM national org being exposed as run by shameless Marxist grifters."
Political commenter Stephen L. Miller quipped, "Hey it turns out people hate billions of dollars in riot damages to their businesses while our media ignores and waives it away."
Author Jim Hanson said, "Weird Maybe that 2020 long #insurrection by #BLM w/ Dozens of deaths Thousands of injuries & $2B+ in damage Had something to do with it."
Political writer A.G. Hamilton explained, "That's because the support was for the concept, which then got confused with the Marxist and bigoted organization of the same name and the violence that followed."
Townhall senior writer Julio Rosas pointed out, "The word 'riot' does not appear once in the article but they did manage to include 'Latinx.' Another attempt to memory hole the massive riots from last year."
Author and mathematician James Lindsay remarked, "This graph, frankly, shows that Democrats are willfully blind to what's going on in the county, probably mostly because they don't want to be accused of having 'conservative' views, which is a mode straight out of Maoism."
Twitter user Comfortably Smug snarked, "Perhaps the cities being on fire had something to do with this."
The Associated Press and NORC Center for Public Affairs Research released a poll last September that also found that support for Black Lives Matter plunged over last summer.
A Pew Research Center survey published in September found that support for public support for the Black Lives Matter movement receded.Football coach Eugene Chung was a first-round NFL draft pick in 1992 and has a decade of NFL coaching experience under his belt, including one Super Bowl win with the Philadelphia Eagles in 2018.
But Chung said Thursday he was recently denied a spot as an NFL head coach because he is "not the right minority." Chung is a Korean American.
What happened?
Speaking with the Boston Globe, Chung recalled the "absolutely mind-blowing" job interview.
"It was said to me, 'Well, you're really not a minority,'" Chung explained.
Chung said the comment left him frozen — but he decided to push the interviewer on what exactly he meant.
"I was like, 'Wait a minute. The last time I checked, when I looked in the mirror and brushed my teeth, I was a minority,'" Chung recalled. "So I was like, 'What do you mean I'm not a minority?'"
The interviewer, however, doubled down and said, "You are not the right minority we're looking for."
"That's when I realized what the narrative was," Chung explained. "I was blown away, emotionally paralyzed for a split second. I asked myself, 'Did I hear that correctly?'"
Chung told the Globe the interviewer began to backtrack when confronted further.
"I asked about it, and as soon as the backtracking started, I was like, 'Oh no, no, no, no, no, you said it. Now that it's out there, let's talk about it,'" Chung said. "It was absolutely mind-blowing to me that in 2021, something like that is actually a narrative."
Chung neither named the interviewer nor identified the team responsible for the racial insult.
Anything else?
"The NFL has attempted to address its lack of diversity, instituting — and updating — the Rooney Rule to mandate that organizations interview at least two minority candidates for head coaching and coordinator openings. The owners also passed a resolution in November that rewards teams for developing minority coaching talent with draft compensation," the Globe reported.
While the effectiveness of the diversity plan has been questioned, Chung said he does not harbor ill will toward the league.
"I'm not sitting here bashing the league at all, because there are great mentors and there are great coaches that embrace the difference," Chung told the Globe. "It's just when the Asians don't fit the narrative, that's where my stomach churns a little bit."
TheBlaze has reached out to the NFL for comment.Democrats and the Biden administration have attributed the blunted economic recovery, in part, to a lack of child care services for working parents. They have used the problem to push support for President Joe Biden's American Families Plan, a massive legislative proposal that would cost taxpayers $1.8 trillion.
However, new analysis released by economic experts including Harvard professor Jason Furman, whom Politico described as a "prominent White House ally" and "Biden-friendly economist," severely undercuts the Democratic narrative.
Jason Furman. (Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
After April's shockingly disappointing job's report showed the U.S. economy stalled last month — adding only about one-quarter of the 1 million jobs experts predicted — Democrats have called for Congress to act on Biden's plan, and the White House has said lack of child care access is preventing parents from rejoining the workforce.
Politico reported:
Democratic officials have used the jobs report to call on Congress to urgently approve hundreds of billions of dollars in child care aid that Biden has proposed under the American Families Plan, which also includes two free years of universal pre-K. "If we don't solve our child care crisis, there isn't going to be an economic recovery," Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), who chairs the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said at a Thursday press conference.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters earlier this month that passing the Families Plan "would have a huge benefit in addressing some of the impacts of child care, on educational needs … that is preventing women from rejoining the workforce."
What did Furman discover?
The economic analysis co-authored Furman, who served as chairman of former President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, found that child care challenges are not contributing to the stalled economic recovery.
"School closures and lack of child care are not holding back the recovery," Furman said, Politico reported. "And conversely, we shouldn't expect a short-term economic bump from reopening schools and making child care more available."
In fact, the analysis discovered the employment rate for parents with young children decreased at a lower rate than the unemployment rate for people without young children, yet another indicator that child care challenges are not contributing to the stalled jobs recovery.
Instead, the analysis concluded that enhanced unemployment benefits is partly behind the disappointing economic numbers from April.
While school closures and ongoing childcare challenges have substantially burdened parents and children alike, they do not appear to be a meaningful driver of the slow employment recovery. This means that the factors responsible for the slow employment recovery and depressed labor supply are issues that are not exclusively related to the struggles of working parents, such as the continued concern about the threat of getting COVID-19 at work or expanded unemployment insurance benefits and eligibility.
Furman had said previously child care challenges and closed schools were contributing to poor economic recovery numbers.
How did the White House respond?
Jared Bernstein, a member of Biden's Council of Economic Advisers, essentially dismissed the analysis, saying it "doesn't obviate our concerns about the child care barrier either in the near-term or the long-term."
"Many factors remain in play: fear of the virus, barriers to child care, school closures, concerns about the vaccination rates for working-age people," Bernstein told Politico. "All of these factors are in the mix, and I don't think you can find one piece of research that says, 'Aha, here is the main factor or the sole factor.' These factors are all interacting with each other as we continue making a gradual return back to pre-crisis conditions."Americans' confidence in Dr. Anthony Fauci has plunged in the last year, according to a new poll from The Convention of States Action and The Trafalgar Group.
The survey of 1,093 likely general election voters conducted between May 16 and May 18 found that people aren't as enamored with Fauci's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic as they used to be.
The survey asked participants: "Has your confidence in Dr. Fauci gone up or down in the past year?" There were 42.2% of respondents who said their confidence in Fauci has "decreased significantly" or "decreased" in the last year. There were 26.1% who said their opinion of the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases was "unchanged" over the last 12 months.
There were 9.1% of those polled who said their opinion of the member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force "increased," and 13% said their faith in Fauci "increased significantly."
As expected, there was a major difference of opinion of Fauci along party lines. There were 61.1% of Republicans who had their confidence in Fauci "decrease" or "decrease significantly" in the past year. Meanwhile, only 20% of Democrats had their opinion of Fauci "decrease" or "decrease significantly" since last year.
"Since the beginning, Dr. Anthony Fauci has served as the face of, and has set the tone for, Washington's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Voters are wisely deciding for themselves and ignoring D.C.," Mark Meckler, President of Convention of States Action, a nonprofit that aims to "bring power back to the states and the people," said.
In February, Americans had a very favorable view of Dr. Fauci. A Morning Consult/Politico poll from February found that 60% of respondents said Fauci had handled the coronavirus pandemic "excellent" or "good," while only 17% said he had done a "poor" job at the time.
In another nationwide poll from The Convention of States Action and The Trafalgar Group, there are over a quarter of Americans who believe the coronavirus pandemic is over. The survey of 1,531 likely general election voters conducted between May 14 and May 16 asked, "When will you personally consider the COVID-19 pandemic over and go about life as usual?"
There were 26.4% of Americans who said they would believe the COVID-19 pandemic is over when the federal government and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tell them the pandemic is over. There were 25.7% who said the coronavirus pandemic is already over. Nearly 20% said the pandemic would be over when everyone has the opportunity to get the coronavirus vaccine. Then there were 11.1% who said they never took the COVID-19 pandemic seriously.Kate Bossi, a grandmother and Sunday school teacher from New Hampshire, was arrested on Thursday after refusing to wear a face mask at a school board meeting.
What happened?
Just moments after Bossi arrived at the Timberlane Regional School Board meeting to demand that children no longer be required to wear face masks in school, police arrested Bossi for refusing to wear a face mask.
Video of the incident shows police officers forcibly arrest Bossi after she entered an auditorium without wearing a mask.
"You are violating my rights right now. You are remiss," Bossi said.
Another man shouted, "Come on Sgt. Porter, you know this is wrong what they're doing to our kids," according to the New Hampshire Union Leader.
Jackie Wydola, the daughter of Bossi, also told officers, "Are you seriously doing this you guys. This is law enforcement. You're not enforcing laws, you're enforcing policy. That doesn't matter."
The meeting was planned to be held in-person, but was ultimately held remotely. "I didn't want to jeopardize the health of the staff and the students," school board chairwoman Kimberly Farah told the Union Leader, referring to maskless people.
Bossi was charged with disorderly conduct, according to her daughter.
What did Bossi say?
The grandmother told the Union Leader police announced her arrest immediately as she attempted to enter the meeting.
"I kept walking into the theater, and he goes, 'You're arrested,'" Bossi told WBZ-TV. "And I said, 'No, I'm taking my seat.'"
Bossi has several grandchildren who attend schools in the Timberlane Regional School District and has concerns over children being forced to wear face masks.
"When you say, 'Just wear the mask', you clearly have no understanding of early childhood development, and these are educators," she explained.
Anything else?
It's not exactly clear what prompted Bossi's arrest other than her entering an area that required face masks. According to WBZ, Bossi believes that she may have been arrested illegally.
The New Hampshire Department of Public Health Services, meanwhile, only recommends students wear face masks inside schools. The agency does not require they wear them.
"NH DPHS continues to recommend schools and childcare agencies implement face mask use whenever possible (for students/children, visitors, volunteers, staff, etc.), including outdoors in group settings. Face masks are strongly recommended indoors, especially if students are seated within 6 feet of each other," the state agency said in recently updated guidance. "Whether or not face masks are required in schools has always been left to local school district/board policy."John Cooper, frontman for the Christian rock band Skillet, issued a dire warning about the damaging effects of critical race theory and woke ideologies have on Christians. Cooper says far-left ideologies are sparking a civil war in the American church.
Cooper noticed that social justice started seeping into the church around 2012, which confused the Christian rocker.
"I knew that I wanted to be a light to the world and I want[ed] to share the Gospel of Christ," Cooper told Fox News. "And I believe a part of that is loving people, and helping the poor, and so on and so forth, but there were things about the social justice movement that gave me a lot of red flags and I didn't quite understand what was happening. That is when I began to really delve into culture, philosophy, and those types of things."
"I think that we had our first fully educated adult group that was totally indoctrinated in academia, into woke ideology, into social justice, into critical race theory, into all of these things – and they basically imported the secular definitions of these words into Christianity," Cooper said. "So, people like myself and most normal people … your average person going to church didn't realize that we were talking about two different things."
Cooper explained that progressives alter the language and definitions of words, such as "anti-racism."
"What kind of Christian isn't against racism? I mean, that would be a very strange thing to not be against racism," the Skillet lead singer said. "But I need to know what you mean when you say [you oppose racism] so that I know what I am marching for or what I am standing up for … Can we have a definition of terms? That would be really nice."
"They were going along with the terminology without understanding what they were going into, and now I think that's becoming very clear," Cooper said of the woke language. "We're having a bit of a church split because a lot of people really believe one way and a lot of people believe another way. I think we're seeing a civil war in the American church – over social justice."
"Critical race theory has become this bogeyman term and some people get really mad when you bring [it] up," he continued. "So, let's not say what critical race theory is. Let me just say what it does … CRT is responsible for a new Christian book … that is a book of prayers, including a prayer that says 'God please help me to hate white people.'"
"A conclusion of CRT is that ... majority-white churches that don't have black leadership are racist," Cooper said, explaining the complexities of critical race theory, and the hypocrisy of the ideology. "But if they do have black leadership, they may be racist because they're tokenizing blacks. But if they have a black man that they believe is gifted, and they want to send him to a Bible college – after that man gets done with Bible college, if he comes back to the white-majority church and the white-majority church keeps him for their own, then they could be guilty of racism for holding talent in the white community and not sending it out to the black community. But if that black man comes back afterwards, and they send him back to the black community, it's proof of racism because they don't want to be under black leadership."
As another example of CRT, Cooper cited when left-wing author Ibram Kendi, author of the book "How to Be An Antiracist," said that Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett adopted two black children to shield her from accusations of being a racist.
The Christian rocker noted that just 10 years ago, Americans rarely talked about skin color, but "we talk about it all of the time now."
"It has made everything in life seen through a monocausality of the color of your skin," he said in the interview. "It's those kinds of things that I see as a completely separate worldview than Christianity. But it is being imported into the Bible, and then people are using Bible scriptures along with that worldview – but they don't actually go together. They're kind of imposing a wrong worldview with the words of Christ. So, now the words of Christ don't mean the same thing as they historically have meant."
He said that his "woke friends" question his Christian faith if he doesn't march for social injustices because they believe it's a "gospel issue."
Cooper called out Black Lives Matter for wanting to "destroy the nuclear family – that's the opposite of what God has said."
The musician also warned against having the "government take care of more people."
"Well, that's the opposite of what God says. It's the parents' job to govern the children," he said. "That is your mandate from God, and you can't buck against the design of God. You buck against the design of God, it bucks back."
Cooper, who is the author of "Awake & Alive to Truth," sees many of the social justice marches and protests as "performative," and aren't providing real solutions. Instead of marching, Cooper advises, "If you apply the wisdom of Proverbs to your life, you will thrive, and there is nothing that can stop you from flourishing because you are acting within the design of God."
The rock star admitted, "American church did not step up as I believe she should have" in regards to condemning racism in the past.
"And we look back at that and say, 'Man the church missed some big opportunities to be a light to the world – to have stood up during Jim Crow laws and during redlining, and during all of these various things,'" Cooper stated. "Because of that, we don't want to be on the wrong side – we don't want to be on the wrong side of history, and so people I think were kind of going along with a lot of the terminology."
Cooper lamented that it is really hard to have honest conversations these days because "people are ready to fight," but he counters the negativity by praying. "I'm not suggesting I always do a good job of this – but I always do pray that I could be full of the spirit of God in order to be gracious toward someone that I disagree with," he said.
You can read the entire John Cooper interview on Fox News.Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) punched back at MSNBC host Brian Williams on Friday after the journalist labeled him "Kremlin Cruz" for recently criticizing an American military advertisement.
What is the background?
Veterans condemned Cruz this week after he mocked an advertisement for the U.S. military. Cruz was responding to a TikTok video that juxtaposed a U.S. military ad and a video of Russian soldiers.
"Holy crap. Perhaps a woke, emasculated military is not the best idea..." Cruz wrote in a tweet that went viral.
Critics falsely claimed that Cruz's response meant he was showing preference for Russian soldiers over Americans. "Ted Cruz attacks a US Army soldier for telling her story, says he prefers Russians. Because Ted Cruz is a sedition-loving traitor," a liberal veteran advocacy group said.
Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), herself a veteran, responded, "Holy crap. Perhaps a U.S. Senator shouldn't suggest that the *Russian* military is better than the American military that protected him from an insurrection he helped foment?"
What did Brian Williams say?
The disgraced journalist claimed Russia is happy over Cruz's response to the video, suggested Cruz wants to become president of Russia, and assigned Cruz the nickname "Kremlin Cruz."
"By all accounts, Ted Cruz did not like the nickname 'Cancun Cruz,' though he tried joking about it, acting like it didn't matter. He really won't like being called 'Kremlin Cruz' after his latest and remarkably stupid lapse in judgement," Williams said.
Before playing the video, Williams added, "Remember as you watch this, just how much Ted Cruz dreams of being president of a country some day — perhaps not this country."
After playing the video, Williams said, "The Russians already reach deep into our society every day. Their disinformation is all over our media already. And it quietly tears us apart. Imagine how happy it makes them to have yet another advocate among Republican members of the Senate."
How did Cruz respond?
In a lengthy response, Cruz noted that Williams was fired by NBC News for lying, and thoroughly rebuked Williams for suggesting he has a fondness for Russia.
"Is there a more pitiful example of corrupt corporate media than Brian Williams?" Cruz began. "He was fired as the anchor of NBC Nightly News for 'misrepresenting events which occurred while he was covering the Iraq War in 2003.' Now, he's a left-wing hack at MSNBC."
"Now, he's throwing a hissy fit that I criticized the ridiculously woke video that the Biden admin put out," he continued. "Williams accidentally told the truth, when he describes it as 'a video meant to diminish the U.S. military.' TRUE. That's the problem. (The Pentagon put it out.)."
Cruz went on to say:
Now, with his trademark ignorant snark, he's dubbed me "Kremlin Cruz." Three problems: (1) I hate communists, my family was imprisoned & tortured by communists, and Brian is a shameless apologist for Russian (and Chinese and Cuban) communists. (2) I was arguing that our military needs to be able to kick the ass of Russian soldiers. It's Brian & his lefty comrades that are working relentlessly to diminish the effectiveness of the U.S. military—the finest fighting force on the face of the planet. And (3) JUST THIS WEEK Biden gave Putin a multi-billion-dollar gift, when he waived mandatory U.S. sanctions to allow Russia to build Nord Stream 2, a massive natural gas pipeline to Germany. Who authored the sanctions that STOPPED NS2? That would be me.
"Cover that, Brian. But that would be actual news, something you don't do. Use your condescending wit to call Biden 'Kremlin Joe'—he's the one illegally giving billions to Putin. But your corporate overlords wouldn't let you," Cruz concluded. "Congrats, Brian. You are Pravda."A 6-year-old boy was shot and killed in a suspected road rage attack in Southern California. Aiden Leos was on his way to kindergarten when the shooting happened. The boy's distraught family is pleading for the public's help to bring the killer to justice.
Aiden's mother was driving on the northbound lane of the 55 Freeway Friday morning near Orange, southeast of Los Angeles, on the way to Calvary Chapel Yorba Linda, the boy's school. Between 7:55 a.m. and 8:15 a.m., the driver of a white wagon sedan cut off Aiden's mother in the carpool lane, and she responded by giving the driver the middle finger in her rearview mirror.
As Aiden's mom changed lanes, a gunman suspected to be the passenger in the vehicle, believed to be a newer model Volkswagen, fired a fatal shot. The bullet pierced through the back of the silver Chevrolet Sonic and struck Aiden, who was in his car seat in the back seat of the vehicle.
"It was an isolated road rage incident between the mom and another driver from a white sedan," California Highway Patrol Officer Florentino Olivera told KTLA-TV. "Unfortunately, the child that was seated in the right rear seat was struck."
Aiden, who celebrated his sixth birthday last week, was pronounced dead at Children's Hospital Orange County.
The shooter and the driver are still at large.
The freeway was shut down for hours as investigators searched for evidence in the shooting.
The family give heartbreaking details about the shooting
After being shot in the stomach, the little boy cried out, "Mommy, my tummy hurts," according to Aiden's sister Alexis Cloonan.
"So she went and she picked him up and he was bleeding on her, she had blood on her clothes," Cloonan said. "And then he started turning blue, and that's when the ambulance took him. And that's the last time my mom saw him alive."
"She was merging to the right side to get away from this person, and as you can see if you go online and look at the photos, there's one bullet shot in the trunk that went through the trunk and right through my nephew," John Cloonan, Aiden's uncle, said.
"She didn't know it was a gunshot that was fired, until she heard my little brother saying his stomach hurt," the uncle told KABC-TV. "She had to hold him while he was dying. No mother should have to go through that."
"My sister has been through a lot. She's a single mom. And you took her son away. You took her boy away," Cloonan said. "This boy was full of love and joy and laughter."
"I just want them to know what they took from the world today, what they took from my family. A little child of happiness. We're never going to be full again," the uncle said.
"You can tell it was a cowardly way of doing it because they shot her in the back pretty much," Cloonan said of the shooter.
"This is a single mom with two kids, she's broken, and she's going to need help," Aiden's aunt, Carol Ybanez, said.
"[My mom] had to hold her little boy as he died, so she is very distraught right now," Alexis said at a press conference.
"He was a rare toddler. I just loved having him in my life," Alexis revealed. "I was also so grateful for him because he was a rare toddler. He was just so loving, he would come into my room and be like, 'You're so beautiful sissy.' Always giving people compliments."
The family pleads for the public's help to find the shooter
The slain boy's sister issues a plea for anyone with information about the shooting to come forward.
"Please help us find the people who did this to my little brother," an emotional Cloonan said. "He's only six and he was so sweet. He was a very, very loving boy. So, please help us find who did this to him."
"I hope someone knows something and that whoever did this, I hope you can see what you've done to this family," the uncle said. "Not that it matters much now because my nephew is dead. We're never going to be full again."
The California Highway Patrol is also asking the public to help bring the shooter to justice.
"If your vehicle has a dashcam, we're asking you, please call our CHP office in Santa Ana, provide that video," Officer Olivera said. "If you were driving by, you saw something that was not right, call it in - even if it wasn't something major - call our office. We want to hear from witnesses."
Tips regarding the 6-year-old boy's death can be provided to the CHP's Santa Ana office at (714) 567-6000.
Authorities are searching for two suspects in the shooting of Aiden Leos: the female driver and the male passenger who is believed to be the shooter.
Since the tragic shooting of Aiden Leos, people created a memorial where they brought flowers, balloons, and toys for the deceased boy.
A GoFundMe page was set up for Aiden's mother to "pay for burial costs, replace her car and living expenses while she is not able to work."A Georgia judge agreed Friday to unseal nearly 150,000 absentee ballots in Fulton County, the state's most populous county, to allow investigators to examine the ballots for evidence of alleged voter fraud.
What are the details?
Henry County Superior Court Judge Brian Amero is allowing more than 145,000 absentee ballots from the 2020 presidential election to be inspected in the audit, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.
The exact details of the audit are still being determined, but Amero made clear the ballots will remain under the care of Fulton County election officials while the audit is conducted.
More from the Journal-Constitution:
Friday's decision came in a lawsuit filed by nine plaintiffs, including Garland Favorito, a Fulton county resident and self-styled election watchdog. It's one of dozens of lawsuits that stemmed from the November presidential election and the January runoff for U.S. Senate, some of which are still winding their way through the courts.
The audit cannot change the results of the 2020 presidential election in Fulton County because they were certified months ago.
However, "plaintiffs say an examination of ballots would get to the bottom of what they see as suspicious activity at State Farm Arena on election night and pave the way for more accurate elections in the future," the Journal-Constitution reported.
Georgia state and local officials have said repeatedly there was no evidence of widespread voter fraud in the election.
What was the reaction?
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican who rebuffed Donald Trump's claims that Georgia's election was marred by voter fraud, said he supports the judge's decision.
In a statement, Raffensperger cited "a longstanding history of election mismanagement" in Fulton County.
"From day one I have encouraged Georgians with legitimate concerns about the election in their counties to pursue those claims through legal avenues," Raffensperger said. "Fulton County has a longstanding history of election mismanagement that has understandably weakened voters' faith in its system. Allowing this audit provides another layer of transparency and citizen engagement."
However, Fulton County Commission Chairman Robb Pitts (D) blasted the decision.
"It is outrageous that Fulton County continues to be a target of those who cannot accept the results from last year's election," Pitts said.
"The votes have been counted three times, including a hand recount, and no evidence of fraud has been found," Pitts continued. "The fact remains that Fulton County safely and securely carried out an election in the midst of a public health pandemic. It's a shame to see that the 'Big Lie' lives on and could cost the hardworking taxpayers of this county."A bizarre chain of incidents led to a Houston police dispatcher and deputy being charged with child sex abuse after a police sergeant committed suicide over the accusations.
The case began to unravel on May 14 when a police dispatcher spoke out about child abuse allegations against Precinct 1 Deputy Constable Robert Johnson during her work performance evaluation.
That spurred an Internal Affairs investigation that went through the Houston Police Department on Monday. The allegations were then linked to the Alvin Police Department.
On Wednesday, that same dispatcher alerted authorities that she was with Johnson and that he was threatening to kill her and commit suicide. When police tried to arrest Johnson during a traffic stop, he began a six-hour standoff during which he confessed to the accusations.
Police say he also implicated the dispatcher who accused him and another deputy.
Johnson then committed suicide by shooting himself.
The dispatcher and deputy were fired from their jobs and arrested. Christina McKay was charged with aggravated sexual assault of a child and Chonda Shalett Williams was charged with sexual assault of a child.
A woman who had been in a previous relationship with Johnson told KPRC-TV that he was a "narcissist" and that there were several red flags pointing to the possibility of the truth of such allegations.
Harris County Precinct 1 Constable Alan Rosen condemned Johnson's actions during a media briefing Friday.
"Robert Johnson did some terrible things and he will meet his maker to answer for that," Rosen said. "I am here to tell anyone who harms children in this case or any case that 'the good' law enforcement officers are coming for you. I can tell you I am here to speak and stand for the victims today, tomorrow and for years to come."
Here's a local news report about the alarming arrests:The prison workers who were tasked with guarding Jeffrey Epstein when he committed suicide admitted to falsifying records but they will avoid jail because of the deal they struck with federal prosecutors.
Authorities said Friday that Tova Noel and Michael Thomas struck a deferred prosecution agreement with prosecutors after being charged with lying on prison records.
Epstein was awaiting trial at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York City when he was found unresponsive in his cell in August 2019. He was under suicide watch and was supposed to be closely monitored to prevent the possibility of his taking his own life.
Under the agreement with the Justice Department, Noel and Thomas will be subject to a supervised release, will complete 100 hours of community service, and have to cooperate fully with a continuing investigation.
The letter from federal prosecutors said the two "admitted that they 'willfully and knowingly completed materially false count and round slips regarding required counts and rounds'" related to Epstein's detention.
The indictment against Noel and Thomas said they fell asleep and shopped online for furniture and motorcycles instead of checking on Epstein every 30 minutes.
The incident was blamed on a persistent problem of staffing shortages at the Bureau of Prisons.
The bizarre circumstances surrounding his suicide have led to a plethora of conspiracy theories. Even Epstein's brother Mark Epstein has said publicly that he doesn't believe the official suicide story.
"Jeffrey knew a lot of stuff about a lot of people," he said.
Soon after the death of Epstein, former President Donald Trump retweeted a claim that Hillary Clinton had the child molester murdered in order to protect her husband, former President Bill Clinton.
Here's more about the charges against the prison guards:A desperate 14-year-old staggered into a restaurant and abandoned her newborn child with strangers and the moment was caught on surveillance and cellphone video.
The alarming incident unfolded Wednesday afternoon at the El Patron Mexican restaurant in Jersey City, New Jersey.
The teenager walked into the restaurant and told the owner at the counter that she had found the baby.
"She looks at me with these really sad, terrified eyes, and she asked me for help," recalled Frankie Aguilar to WCBS-TV.
One of the restaurant customers didn't hesitate to jump in immediately to help the infant.
"I said do you mind if I check the baby's vitals, she readily handed the baby over to me so my focus went right onto the baby," said Alease Scott to WABC-TV.
Scott is trained in CPR and in first aid. She's also a mother of three children.
"I sat down, I checked the baby's vitals, the heart rate was strong, but the breathing was very labored," Scott said.
The teenager ran out of the restaurant after leaving her baby.
Scott recalls the "sweetest" moment when the baby cried out.
"Once I applied the oxygen mask to the baby, all of a sudden we heard the most beautiful cry and the baby started moving, she slightly opened up her eyes and then she closed her eyes but the sweetest thing was when she got hungry and she was trying to suckle on the oxygen mask so we knew she was OK after that," Scott said.
Scott's boyfriend, Walter Cocca, became overwhelmed with emotion at the sight. He had also been abandoned as a baby.
"There's been so many incidents where she could have put the baby in a trash can, or left the baby with a stranger that would have done some harm to the baby," said Scott.
Law enforcement officials took the opportunity to remind the public that New Jersey has a Safe Haven law, which allows parents and other guardians to leave newborn babies 30 days and younger at fire stations, police stations, or hospitals.
The teenage mom was later found and police said she and the baby are unharmed. The baby will be put up for adoption. The teenager has not been charged.
Here's a local news video about the incident:Vox News co-founder Ezra Klein sounded the alarm about a threat to "the broader liberal project" from the spike in violent crime across America, saying that a voter backlash could help former President Donald Trump win re-election in 2024.
Klein posted his concerns in a tweet thread citing several examples where Democrats were facing challenges to re-election because of the rise in violent crime.
"Violent crime is spiking. Homicides in cities were up by 25-40 percent in 2020, the largest single-year increase since 1960. And 2021 isn't looking any better," Klein tweeted.
"This is a crisis on its own terms. But it's also a crisis for the broader liberal project in two downstream ways," he added.
"First, violent crimes supercharges inequality. Families who can flee, do. Business close or never open. Banks won't make loans. Property values plummet. Children are traumatized, with lifelong impacts on stress and cognition," Klein continued.
"Second, fear of violence undermines liberal politics. Just look at America post-9/11. Or after the crime surges of the '70s and '80s and '90s — strongmen politicians win, punitive responses like mass incarceration and warrior policing rise, social trust collapses," he added.
Klein posted several examples of Democrats facing political hurdles over an increase in crime and then concluded the backlash could help Trump win back the Oval Office in 2024, should he run again.
"The politics of this could really tip, and not just in cities — if these numbers keep getting worse, then as with Nixon and Reagan in the '70s and '80s, it could bring "law and order" conservatives (including Trump) back to power in 2024," he added.
Many on the left agreed with Klein's warning while others criticized him for tacitly blaming the 'Defund the Police" effort by progressives.
Here's more on the recent spike in violent crime:Hundreds of protesters marched to the home of Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot on Thursday to criticize her leadership of the Windy City. At the demonstration organized by over 40 organizations, including Black Lives Matter Chicago and the Chicago Teachers Union, progressive protesters grumbled that the far-left Democratic mayor failed the people of Chicago.
On the two-year anniversary of the mayor's time in office, more than 300 protesters gathered outside Lightfoot's home in the Logan Square neighborhood in Chicago. The demonstrators voiced their complaints about Lightfoot's handling of several issues, including the coronavirus recovery, police reform, housing, education, the environment, and racial injustice.
Demonstrators held up report cards of Lightfoot's performance, for which she received failing grades on all of the issues. One report card gave Lightfoot a letter grade of "F" for her policies regarding law enforcement, especially for not defunding the police.
Protesters posted photos and videos of the demonstration on social media, using the hashtag #2Years2Much, a reference to her first two years in office.
"For the past 2 years, Lightfoot's Administration has continued to ignore the demands of its people," Black Lives Matter Chicago wrote on its Facebook page. "This administration has failed on multiple issues - from environmental justice to education to policing to housing and COVID recovery."
Good Kids Mad City, one of the community organizations that organized the protest and is a group for 'black and brown youth united in fighting to end violence in our cities," posted a video on Twitter of demonstrators chanting, "F*** Lori Lightfoot!"
"We are here to deliver Lori Lightfoot her report card that says she has failed us in every possible way," protester Oscar Gonzalez told WLS-TV.
"It's not enough to be black, it's not enough to be female, you gotta be right," Tara Stamps, a veteran Chicago Public Schools teacher, told WFLD.
The Chicago Teachers Union tweeted that its 28,000 members are "grateful and honored to be standing alongside" protesters against the Chicago mayor.
Lightfoot responded to the protest by saying, "Look, I'm the mayor of the city. There's always going to be people who are critical. There's always people who are going to say we've fallen short."
"I can say that I'm proud of the progress that we've made and excited to continue the hard work to roll up our sleeves and get things done on behalf of the residents of this city," she added.
Lightfoot is also taking fire for her recent remark that she would only be doing interviews with "black or brown journalists."New video footage from Los Angeles this week shows the terrifying moment that a Jewish man was being chased down by at least two Palestinian flag-bearing cars in a parking lot on his way home from synagogue. The anonymous man revealed just how harrowing the incident was, telling Fox News he definitely feared for his life as his pursuers were chanting "Allahu akbar."
What happened?
As Middle East tensions between Hamas terrorists and Israel have escalated, pro-Palestinian and anti-Israel attacks on Jews around the world — including in the United States — have also risen.
Reports across the globe have documented cases of pro-Palestine activists verbally and physically harassing and attacking Jews:
In Vienna, Austria, a pro-Palestinian crowd was shown on video cheering a fellow counter-demonstrator when he shouted at pro-Israel activists to "stick the Holocaust up your ass!"
A longtime CNN contributor was caught tweeting, "The world today needs a Hitler." Turns out he had a history of nasty pro-Nazi, anti-Jewish postings.
A small pro-Israel rally in Toronto required police protection after pro-Palestine protesters attacked them.
In London, a pro-Palestinian convoy drove around the city screaming, "F*** the Jews! F*** their daughters! F*** their mothers! Rape their daughters! We have to send a message!"
A famous Muslim actress tweeted a Hitler-esque quote: "I would have killed all the Jews of the world ... but I kept some to show the world why I killed them."
A mob of pro-Palestinian thugs who went around a Los Angeles neighborhood asking restaurant diners if they were Jewish were videoed beating up two Jewish men.
In New York City, pro-Israel protesters found themselves being sworn at — "F*** you, Zionists!" — and on the wrong end of a firework attack.
Facebook removed a popular pro-Israel prayer page with 75 million followers after Islamic radicals launched a "cyber terrorism" campaign on the page.
Beloved actress Gal Gadot (aka Wonder Woman) faced ugly, nasty responses for daring to be Jewish and issuing a call for peace in the Middle East.
Now a new video out of L.A. shows at least two cars waving Palestinian flags chasing down an unnamed man. The man running from the cars, who said he is Jewish, spoke with Fox News this week about the incident that happened Monday.
According to the victim, he was on his way home from synagogue when cars began speeding toward him, chasing him into a bank parking lot.
"I've taken this route a million times and I've never been afraid," he told Fox News. "I was waiting by the light for it to change and suddenly I saw a bunch of cars coming and I see out of the corner of my eye they were waving the Palestinian flag. They started speeding up and I heard them chanting 'Allahu akbar.' That's when I started running for my life."
Image source: Fox News video screenshot
"I ran as fast as I could," he added. "They were picking up speed and I really thought they were going to run me over, that it would all be over."
He told the outlet that he escaped by running back into the synagogue, praying all the way. When he entered the house of worship, he recruited others to help secure the entrances.
"I was petrified," he said. "I just kept thinking, 'I'm a father of six and I want to come home to them tonight.' I thought they were going to kill me. My mind was racing."
He told the outlet he was shocked to see this in America where freedom of religion is paramount.
"You'll never see any Jews in my community attacking pro-Palestinians in a residential neighborhood like you saw here. And yet, I don't feel safe walking around," he said.
The LAPD told Fox News the incident is under investigation and that they could not give specifics, but they assured the community they are aggressively searching for the perpetrators.In the absence of federally mandated vaccine passports, Dr. Anthony Fauci expects multiple U.S businesses to impose their own requirements for customers to show proof of vaccination to receive service.
Fauci, the White House's top medical adviser, said Thursday that businesses like airlines and cruise ships will likely require customers to show proof of receiving both doses of a COVID-19 vaccine before being allowed on board. He also noted that several universities have already begun requiring students to be vaccinated before returning to campus this fall.
"There are organizations, particularly universities and colleges who are saying, not withstanding what the federal government is requiring, if you want to come into campus and be in in-person learning, you're going to have to show proof of vaccination," Fauci said at a Bloomberg Businessweek conference.
"Cruise ships will likely be doing that. Airlines will likely be doing that. So you're going to have at, a local, independent-level, things that the federal government is not going to be mandating," he added.
The Biden administration said in March that there will be no federal mandate requiring people to show proof of vaccination to enter public spaces and no centralized, universal federal vaccinations database. The White House is instead leaving it up to the private sector to determine how businesses should fully reopen as more Americans become vaccinated against COVID-19 and the government's health restrictions are eased.
The adoption of vaccine passports, which have proved controversial, has so far been decentralized. Some MLB and NBA sports teams, for example, are requiring fans to use an app called Health Pass to provide digital proof that they have gotten their COVID-19 shots before they can enter stadiums to attend games.
But some states are limiting the use of vaccine passports, or outright banning them. Texas and Florida were among the first states to ban government agencies and private businesses from requiring vaccine passports for service. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) said the passports "would create two classes of citizens based on vaccination." Arizona, Utah, and more states followed suit with legislation limiting the use of vaccine passports, though in some cases private businesses are allowed to create their own policies.
Though last week the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued new guidance stating individuals fully vaccinated against COVID-19 no longer need to wear face coverings, the CDC still requires those traveling on planes, buses, trains, or other forms of public transportation to wear masks over their nose and mouth. The CDC also advices Americans to obey local coronavirus restrictions or those imposed by individual businesses.United States Customs and Border Protection agents have already seized more fentanyl in fiscal year 2021 (which began in October) than all of fiscal year 2020, according to the CBP. This is the latest metric showing that the current border crisis not only has a surge in illegal immigrants, but also illegal and deadly drugs.
"So far in Fiscal Year 2021, fentanyl seizures have already surpassed those from all of Fiscal Year 2020, with 6,494 through April 2021 compared to 4,776 for all of Fiscal Year 2020," CBP said in a news release. CBP seized 2,801 pounds of synthetic fentanyl in 2019 and 2,283 pounds in 2018, according to the CBP website.
Interceptions of cocaine by Border Patrol agents were up 41% in April compared to March, and seizures of heroin skyrocketed 97% in the same time period.
Also in the recent CBP news release, the border agency stated that its agents encountered 178,622 persons attempting entry along the Southwest border in April, a 3% increase over March 2021.
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott is sounding the alarm regarding the alarming boom of fentanyl being trafficked across the U.S. southern border. The Republican governor revealed there had been a whopping 800% increase of fentanyl seizures at the border by the Texas Department of Public Safety this April compared to the same month last year.
"I gotta tell you, there's a new dynamic about what's going on at the border that Americans need to know about, and that is increased apprehension of fentanyl coming across the border," Abbott said during an interview with Fox News on May 14. "Yes, there may be people coming across, but there are dangerous drugs coming across the border.
"We have obtained enough fentanyl coming across the border to kill every single person in the state of New York," Abbott stated. "This is a very deadly situation happening on the border.
"The Biden administration had better wake up," Abbott said. "Because of what Texas is doing on the border, it's Texas that is securing the border. We want Biden to pay for it."
Fentanyl is a powerful synthetic opioid that is similar to morphine but is 80 to 100 times more potent, according to the Drug Enforcement Agency. "Two milligrams of fentanyl can be lethal depending on a person's body size, tolerance and past usage," the DEA states.
There were more than 81,000 drug overdose deaths in the United States in the 12 months ending in May 2020, the highest number of overdose deaths ever recorded in a 12-month period, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Reporters in Australia are being accused of engaging in egregious journalistic malpractice after newly obtained footage allegedly shows them coaching answers from women making sexual assault allegations against Australian actor Craig McLachlan.
Raw camera tapes from the interviews, conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Company and Fairfax Media, appear to show journalists giving specific instructions to the women on how to present their allegations in an exposé of the television star, Sky News reported in a show segment Friday.
During the segment, Sky News host Chris Kenny said the clips offered viewers "a disturbing insight into the intent of that journalism" behind the apparent hit job on McLachlan, who was acquitted of charges last year.
In the first clip, journalists can be heard encouraging an accuser to use the word "predatory." Then in a second clip, one reporter speaks up to say, "I don't think we should be putting words in her mouth," but is ignored as the producers proceed to coach the accuser in multiple takes.
Later in the video, Sky News plays a clip of someone who is reportedly a senior journalist with Fairfax Media admitted that, "ultimately, we want [McLachlan] out of that job."
'Disturbing' footage shows ABC journos 'coaching' answers to women making allegations youtu.be
"This is a highly worrying look behind the scenes," Kenny said before asking, "Are these journalists asking questions or dictating answers?"
In an op-ed regarding the story, veteran TV producer Robert McKnight recalled that "in all the years of producing promos for programs like 60 Minutes, Today Tonight, and A Current Affair, I have watched a lot of raw camera tapes while looking for grabs. I can honestly say I have NEVER heard reporters and producers of any of those shows coaching talent. The closest they would have possibly come is asking the interviewee to be more concise in their thoughts."
The clips were first aired over the weekend by Australia's Channel 7 News in a documentary that intended to show McLachlan's side of the story. The actor was acquitted last year on seven charges of indecent assault and six of common assault — 13 total — for his actions during a 2014 stage production of "The Rocky Horror Show."
In the documentary, McLachlan claims that he was a victim of a #MeToo activist campaign put on by journalists and recounts how he contemplated suicide as a result of "the absolute demolition" of his life.Former Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D) says that Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot (D) should resign after granting interviews only to journalists and reporters of color.
What are the details?
In a strongly worded Friday tweet, Gabbard wrote, "Mayor Lightfoot's blatant anti-white racism is abhorrent. I call upon President Biden, Kamala Harris, and other leaders of our country — of all races — to join me in calling for Mayor Lightfoot's resignation. Our leaders must condemn all racism, including anti-white."
Earlier this week, Lightfoot announced that she would only give interviews to media representatives of color in order to honor the two-year anniversary of her mayoral inauguration.
Despite facing significant backlash, Lightfoot defended her stance, and insisted that people should take a cue from her decision and hire more persons of color across all industries, and particular within the local and national media.
A two-page letter to local media saw Lightfoot double down on the move and complained that area news outlets are disproportionately male and white.
She wrote, "By now, you may have heard the news that on the occasion of the two-year anniversary of my inauguration as Mayor of this great City, I will be exclusively providing one-on-one interviews with journalists of color. As a person of color, I have throughout my adult life done everything that I can to fight for diversity and inclusion in every institution that I have been a part of and being Mayor makes me uniquely situated to shine a spotlight on this most important issue."
Lightfoot asserted that "overwhelming whiteness and maleness" dominates Chicago-area media outlets, editorial boards, and political press corps, and complained that were no female reporters of color covering city hall.
WBEZ-TV, however, dashed the claim and pointed out that two of its three city hall reporters were female reporters with Hispanic and South Asian backgrounds, respectively.
What else?
In April, the former Hawaii congresswoman implored Americans to tamp down on what she said was "racialization" taking hold across the country.
In a widely shared social media post, Gabbard wrote, "My dear friends and fellow Americans, please, please let us stop the RACIALIZATION of everyone and everything — i.e., racialism. We are all children of God and are therefore family in the truest sense, no matter what our race or ethnicity. This is aloha. This is what our country and world need."
In a related video, Gabbard said that "propaganda media" are complicit in sowing hatred and took aim at politicians willing to capitalize on resulting division.
"The mainstream propaganda media and politicians, they want us to constantly focus on our skin color and the skin color of others, because it helps them politically or financially," she said. "'Aloha' means respect and love for others. It's what enables us to see beyond our skin color and see the soul, the person within."
She concluded, "[L]et's do our best to cultivate this aloha in our hearts, and see and treat others through this prism of love, not through the prism of race and ethnicity. Please let us not allow ourselves to be led down this dark and divisive path of racialism and hate."In his first public address since leaving the Trump administration, former Attorney General Bill Barr criticized the "secular progressive orthodoxy through government-run schools" and suggested public funding for education may be unconstitutional given the hostility of state-funded schools toward religious believers.
"The time has come to admit that the approach of giving militantly secularist government schools a monopoly over publicly funded education has become a disaster," Barr said at an event in Naples, Florida, according to Fox News.
The former attorney general said ideology running rampant through the public school system is incompatible with traditional Christianity and other major religions in the U.S. As such, he suggested "it may no longer be fair, practical or even constitutional to provide publicly funded education solely through the vehicle of state-funded schools."
Barr made these remarks at the Council for National Policy's annual meeting, where he received an award from the Alliance Defending Freedom, a legal group that defends religious liberty.
His speech touched on critical race theory being taught in the classroom as part of Black Lives Matter curricula, which he called "Marxism substituting race for class antagonism," and also on school materials that promote the idea that gender is not immutable, but rather fluid and open to self-interpretation.
"This is not established science," said Barr, but is rather the "moral, psychological, metaphysical dogma of the new orthodoxy."
He called these ideas "a broadsided attack on natural law."
"It's monstrous of the state to indoctrinate students into alternate belief systems," he added.
Conservatives and Republican elected officials who represent them have become increasingly concerned about what children are being taught in school as U.S. test scores show American students continuing to fall behind the rest of the developed world in reading and mathematics.
Several Republican-controlled state legislatures have passed or advanced legislation that would ban or impose restrictions on teaching critical race theory in public schools. The marxist, post-modern theory, which has roots in legal scholarship, is premised on the idea that race is a socially constructed concept historically used by white people to oppress and exploit non-white people. Proponents of the theory maintain that U.S. institutions are inherently racist because they have discriminated against minorities in the past and produced inequitable outcomes for them when compared to white people living today.
GOP states have also moved to enact laws prohibiting transgender athletes who were born males but identify as or have begun to transition to female from playing on girls sports teams.
Parents have also spoken out against sexually explicit material being taught in the classroom.More than 150 missing children were rescued in North Carolina, and some were victims of human trafficking. Over 130 missing and runaway juveniles were recovered with the assistance of the United States marshals in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg area after a monthslong investigation.
Another 27 "critically missing juveniles" were located during "Operation Carolina Homecoming," a joint effort between Charlotte-Mecklenburg police and federal agents. Between April 26 and May 7, collaborative teams of detectives from the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department's Missing Person Unit, U.S. Marshal Service deputies, and the Department of Public Safety Missing Persons Unit conducted extensive searches to recover "especially difficult to find juveniles." Previous efforts to locate the missing children had been unsuccessful, the city of Charlotte acknowledged in a news release.
Several of the minors had been engaged in high-risk activities such as prostitution and involvement in illegal drugs. CMPD said the minors were mostly between the ages of 14 to 18.
Some of the missing children were victims of human trafficking. CMPD officials are investigating the cases of child trafficking, and will arrest anyone who committed crimes involving the endangered children.
"Kids don't need to be living alone in hotels, kids don't need to be living alone with an older partner," CMPD Captain Joel McNelly said, according to WCNC-TV. "People who do this are looking for people vulnerable people who have bad home lives and are looking for something else -- people easily manipulated."
McNelly said there were some minors who were "actively taking measures to avoid being recovered," adding, "They're self-sustaining, they're trying to make money, support themselves."
"These kids come from traumatic backgrounds, potentially abusive households, drug and alcohol addiction, incarcerated parents," said McNelly, who is part of the CMPD's Violent Crimes Division. "We're proud of what we were able to do for the community through this."
The recovered minors were provided with resources from Atrium Health Levine Children's Hospital, Pat's Place Child Advocacy Center, the North Carolina ISAAC Fusion Center, and Mecklenburg County Child Protective Services.
"Even if a kid goes out there with good intentions that they're going to stay on the straight and narrow, it doesn't take very long to get cold and hungry and succumb to the pressure of somebody who knows just how to time their effort into manipulate you into activity you maybe otherwise wouldn't have wanted to be apart of," said Dr. Stacy Reynolds with Atrium Health Levine Children's Hospital.
In March, there were 150 missing and endangered children recovered in Tennessee during "Operation Volunteer Strong," a joint mission by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, Department of Children's Service, and the U.S. Marshals Service.
In February, "Operation Broken Hearts" resulted in 37 people being arrested in the Phoenix area for alleged child sex crimes and human trafficking.
In January, "Operation Reclaim & Rebuild" ended in the apprehension of 64 suspects for alleged sex crimes in Riverside, California.
Also in January, which is National Human Trafficking Awareness Month, a multi-agency human trafficking investigation led by the FBI known as "Operation Lost Angels" resulted in the rescue of 33 missing children in California.Embattled California Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom is fighting the gubernatorial recall initiative in his state with a war chest filled with sizable contributions from wealthy progressive elites, including millions of dollars from Netflix founder and co-CEO Reed Hastings.
According to a state filing issued Thursday, Hastings recently donated $3 million to a fund aimed at combating efforts in a recall, which will likely land before voters as a ballot measure in the fall.
Hastings' contribution to the fund, which is called "Stop the Republican Recall of Governor Newsom," is by far the largest single donation to date. But according to Politico, it's merely demonstrative of the "formidable fundraising network" that Newsom can tap into in his bid to remain governor.
The news outlet noted that in addition to Hastings' millions, the pro-Newsom fund "has also drawn six-figure outlays from a range of prominent individuals and industries that include agricultural power couple Stewart and Lynda Resnick, 49ers CEO Jed York, law firms and labor unions."
Also, the array of big-dollar contributions only bolsters the significant financial advantage Newsom already enjoys in the recall election due to certain California rules that govern the process.
Politico reported that because state law treats Newsom's recall fight as a ballot issue rather than a candidacy, "Newsom can raise unlimited sums to fend off a recall effort that will likely land before voters in the fall, while other gubernatorial candidates are subject to campaign limits of $32,400 per election in their direct accounts."
Given Newsom's massive edge over the competition in fundraising and California's extreme bent toward Democratic policies, it's safe to say his ouster from office via recall is a long shot. Even so, the fact that the option will be put before voters says something about his popularity, or lack thereof, in the state.
Recall efforts against Newsom spawned last year as a result of his bungled handling of the coronavirus pandemic, which included a public relations disaster over Newsom's maskless attendance at a large dinner party at the French Laundry, an high-end restaurant in Napa Valley.
Last month, the campaign to recall Newsom obtained enough signatures — more than 1.5 million — to trigger a special election in the state.
According to Deadline, declared challengers will include former Republican gubernatorial candidate John Cox, former San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer, former Congressman Doug Ose, and Caitlyn Jenner.Fox News contributor and Democratic pundit Jessica Tarlov has just about had it with the left's woke mob — and she wants her party to understand that if they keep following the uber-liberal throng, they are going to make loyal voters "cranky" and turn them into "disenchanted Democrats." Which, she believes, will cost her party electorally.
In an op-ed for The Hill this week, Tarlov began by citing HBO's Bill Maher who has become known of late for his criticism of the woke left and the Democratic Party. She admitted that she hasn't been a Maher fan, having often been offended by things he says about race and Islam, but now, she said, he is hitting "all the right notes."
And she has "been loving it" — especially the focus on "mean woke" people who are turning leftists like Maher into "cranky liberals" and "cranky Democrats."
"Liberalism has changed dramatically over the past few years, and the impact of these changes can be felt across a broad spectrum of issues that are turning a lot of happy Democrats into cranky ones," Tarlov wrote.
Then she called out three major issues where the "mean woke" members of her tribe are hurting the party.
1: Defund the police
The movement to "defund the police" has been a killer for the Democratic Party, Tarlov wrote. And it's a topic that does not sell with the American people:
First and foremost, is the so-called movement to “defund the police." Since this slogan burst onto the scene following the deaths of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, it's been a complete disaster. Politicians have contorted themselves into unattractive knots trying to explain what it actually means — because no one in their right mind thinks that we should actually defund police departments. [...]
There's no reason to be talking about defunding police when only 18 percent of Americans support the concept overall — including just 28 percent of Black Americans and 34 percent of Democrats. What has been central to President Biden's success is that he does popular things. That's how you get elected and keep your approval rating above 50 percent. As crime continues to soar in major cities, it is now a top issue in the New York City mayoral race, and I cringe every time I hear that terrible slogan.
Democratic leaders admitted that it cost the party big time in 2020.
House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn (D-S.C.) told fellow Democrats on an election post-mortem conference call that if the Democrats "are going to run on Medicare for All, defund the police, socialized medicine, we're not going to win," according to Politico.
Moderate Democratic Rep. Abigail Spanberger (Va.) agreed and scolded the party for pushing extreme messages.
"We need to be pretty clear," she reportedly said on the call, "It was a failure. It was not a success. We lost incredible members of Congress.
"We have to commit to not saying the words 'defund the police' ever again," she added. "If we run this race again we will get f***ing torn apart again in 2022," according to the Washington Post.
2: Cancel culture
It used to be that it was just conservatives who complained about getting canceled. Many on the left mocked the idea as right-wing victimhood. That has changed significantly, Tarlov noted — and Democrats had better pay attention.
Second, so-called “cancel culture" is becoming something more than right-wing complaining. According to recent polling, over 60 percent of Americans see the cancel culture as a threat, including a growing number of Democrats. Just a few years ago, who even knew what cancel culture was? Today, nearly everybody does and 48 percent of Democrats say they see it as a problem, compared to 52 percent who don't.
That's way too slim of a margin to ignore. And I can understand why it's becoming more and more of a hot-button issue. We have European publishers who have been fired as translators of Amanda Gorman's poetry because the translator wasn't a Black woman, even though Gorman picked the white Dutch translator herself. We have seen employees at Smith College get called racists for following school protocols and asking a Black student to leave an area that was off limits to everyone. And one of the most egregious examples is that of Mimi Groves, a white teenager who used a racial slur in a Snapchat video when she was 15, apologized and still had her college admission revoked after a fellow student decided to make her past actions a current problem.
Tarlov urged her fellow Democrats to accept the reality of cancel culture and to reject the desire to "exact revenge on conservatives."
3: Critical race theory
Democrats had better understand the problem that much of the new anti-racism curriculum poses to American schools and families. Though Tarlov favors revisions to curriculum to address racism, it cannot come at the "exclusion of historically important curriculum," which is currently getting the "heave ho" from the left, she said.
"Anti-racism teachings and world history must coexist and complement each other," Tarlov wrote. And if the Democrats can't get a handle on this, they're going to see even liberal families pulling their kids out of a left-wing system.
From refusing to talk to students about Christopher Columbus and why we celebrate Veterans Day, according to one public school teacher I met, to the drama playing out over race at my alma mater, the Dalton School in Manhattan, even the most liberal parents are wondering if it's time to pull their kids.
Virginia's Fairfax County is about to pay nearly $300,000 for an equity consultant, and in the private Brearley School families must sign an “anti-racism pledge" to be considered for admission. Many parents feel their children are too young for such complex conversations that schools are pushing, and I can't say I disagree. This is about liberal pushback, not conservative opposition. It's about parents who share the same progressive values as these schools who feel like things are going too far.
And if it's a threat to schools and families, it's a threat to the Democratic Party.In this clip, BlazeTV's Chad Prather was fired up about the growing number of Americans contracting COVID-19 after having been fully vaccinated. Prather cited Bill Maher along with eight people from the New York Yankees among them.
Earlier in the week, Prather covered a story about U.S. Navy operators revealing an incident that involved a "tic tac flying object" over the ocean just off the coast of San Diego back in 2004.
"We talked about the UFOs and the aliens last night and I am making a plea from BlazeTV," Prather began. "If you can hear me, if you've made contact, come pick me up. I want to go with you." He went on to say he would rather go with the aliens than live life among the insanity related to COVID, masks, and vaccines.
Watch the clip below for more from Chad. Can't watch? Download the podcast here.
Want more from Chad Prather?
To enjoy more of Chad's comedy, craziness and common sense, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.ESPN sports commentator Stephen A. Smith claimed Thursday that "white privilege" is the primary reason that former Heisman Trophy winner Tim Tebow has been given another opportunity to make it in the National Football League.
"If I'm gonna bring up white privilege when I brought up Steve Nash getting the job in Brooklyn, is this not an example of white privilege?" Smith said on ESPN's "First Take" before asking, "What brother do you know that's getting this opportunity?"
"Now that makes people uncomfortable because we're talking about race," Smith continued. "Let me be the first to say, I don't give a damn how you feel. I mean what I say. It is white privilege."
Tebow, an outspoken evangelical Christian and former NFL quarterback, signed a one-year deal with the Jacksonville Jaguars this week in a bid to make the team at the tight end position. Tebow's former college coach at the University of Florida, Urban Meyer, is now the head coach of the Jaguars.
First Take reacts to the Jaguars officially signing Tim Tebow as a tight end www.youtube.com
Meyer has previously defended his team's decision to give Tebow a tryout earlier this month by claiming his former player was in the "best shape of his life" and a "competitive maniac."
In a statement expressing gratitude to the Jaguars for the opportunity, Tebow said, "I want to thank the Jaguars for the opportunity to compete and earn the chance to be part of this team. I know it will be a challenge, but it is a challenge I embrace. I am dedicated to taking the direction of our coaching staff and learning from my teammates. I appreciate everyone's support as I embark on this new journey."
The 33-year-old athlete last played in the NFL in 2015. He was drafted in 2010 by the Denver Broncos, where he primarily served as a backup over two seasons. However, in 2011, he became the starting QB in Week 5 and led the Broncos to the playoffs where they won their Wild Card game matchup against the Pittsburgh Steelers.
His career fizzled in the following years as it became apparent he wasn't talented enough to play QB at the professional level.
During the segment on ESPN, Smith said he was happy for Tebow as a person but argued that similar opportunities would never be given to black athletes, such as Colin Kaepernick. He also linked his reaction to the black community's reaction to George Floyd's death last year.
"Because black people have repeatedly felt like we have the proverbial knee on our neck," he said. "We constantly have to scratch and claw our way. When we see someone of a different ilk, of a different ethnicity, getting opportunities we know we would never get, that's where the words 'white privilege' comes from."YouTube has demonetized BlazeTV host Steven Crowder yet again, but this time Crowder is taking the tech giant to court.
Recently, YouTube gave Crowder's account its second hard strike, meaning that the next one will result in a permanent ban. He joined Glenn Beck on the radio program to explain what this would mean for the future of conservative media and how he's fighting back.
"We have filed a legal notice of a lawsuit and an immediate injunction against YouTube," Crowder explained. "This is the big one. This is the big one with the Roman Empire at this point. As a matter of fact, the Roman Empire couldn't fathom the power of Alphabet, who owns YouTube and Google."
Crowder argued that neither of the videos that received strikes actually violated YouTube's policies. Instead, he believes YouTube is essentially saying conservative views are not welcome.
"It's tantamount to saying, no conservatives are welcome," Crowder said. "I do not say this to boast. You know I never talk about the numbers on my show because I want the content to speak for itself, but this is far and away the No. 1 show on new media. Period. We beat Kimmel. We beat Trevor Noah. We beat these guys every single day. Every single day. But it's not because of us — it's conservative views. These views are not welcome. And the reason we've filed an injunction for immediate relief, is to make sure our channel is still up, that we know what steps to take next.
"And, Glenn, I don't know if there can ever be another Steven Crowder. I don't know if there can be another Glenn Beck," he continued. "We don't know if there can ever be another Rush Limbaugh, if three companies [YouTube, Google, Facebook] control all of the information."
"I'm only one guy," Crowder added. "But I have a good lawyer."
Crowder's lawsuit against YouTube is his second this year. In February, Crowder's lawyer Bill Richmond announced plans to sue Facebook Inc. over "unfair competition, fraud, false advertising, and antitrust" violations.
Watch the video clip below for more details:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream."The View" co-hosts Joy Behar and Meghan McCain clashed over vaccinations on Thursday's broadcast of the hit daytime TV show, prompting co-host Whoopi Goldberg to prematurely shut down the segment.
At one point during the heated discussion, Behar insisted that conservatives are avoiding the vaccine simply in order to "own the libs."
The remarks didn't sit well with McCain, the sole conservative on the panel.
What are the details?
Early in the segment, which was about COVID-19 vaccines, vaccine lotteries, and the contingent of population who are receiving the vaccines, co-host Sunny Hostin argued that people who refuse the vaccine are "selfish," and insisted that we are "supposed to be our brothers' and sisters' keeper."
"We're supposed to take care of each other," Hostin reasoned. "We have to incentivize people to get vaccinated so they not only protect themselves and their families, but their fellow citizens — I guess I can't make sense of something like that when you have a country like India where there are 4,500 deaths every day from COVID and people there are begging for the vaccine."
Hostin concluded her tirade by insisting that people who wish to be incentivized for receiving the vaccine are "sad and selfish" and "frankly kind of absurd."
Behar's remarks came after the show played a clip of infectious diseases expert Dr. Anthony Fauci saying that Americans were misinterpreting updated mask guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
What are Americans 'misinterpreting'?
On Wednesday, Fauci said, "They are feeling that we're saying 'You don't need the mask anymore.' That's not what the CDC said. They said 'If you are vaccinated, you can feel safe — that you will not get infected either outdoors or indoors. It did not explicitly say that unvaccinated people should abandon their masks."
Behar chimed in, "It's not that complicated, people. It's not nuclear physics. All you have to do is get the damn vaccine. When you go inside, wear a mask even if you have the vaccine. There might be variants around. Get the damn vaccine! Get the booster when that time is coming! What is the complicated problem here with people?
"I don't understand," she continued. "Is this just to own the libs? Maybe they're not seeing enough on television the way people suffer when they get the disease. Even though the numbers are going down, people are still dying. ... You're not 'owning the libs' by not getting the shot. Nobody is growing an extra arm or head. Everybody is fine. It's the people not taking it who are not fine. I'm sick of it!"
White House and CDC have done a 'terrible job'
McCain interjected and said that Behar's remarks weren't helpful in mending division between conservatives and liberals and that Fauci's messaging on the vaccine and mask-wearing has been utter "garbage."
"And it's not just about owning the libs, the demographics on who is vaccine-hesitant — it crosses the gamut," McCain fired back. "The White House and the CDC have done a terrible job, and just saying, 'What do you want to own the libs' and that's that? It's not productive. That's why people keep going to their corners and this is coming from a place of fear. I don't think it's coming from a place of politics."
McCain added that there has been so much miscommunication surrounding the pandemic that it's easy to see why some Americans are hesitant or skeptical of a new vaccine.
"People don't understand and don't know," McCain defended. "I don't like to judge people who aren't accessible to the same resources and education I am. This is a serious, serious problem in this country."
Behar's race argument
Behar reasoned that vaccine hesitancy in black Americans is legitimate, but added that white conservatives aren't getting the vaccine because they're watching Fox News hosts Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson.
"A lot of people of color have every right to be skeptical of the government," Behar insisted. "They have been burned for generations by various policies and so they're nervous. That's different."
McCain interrupted, "Republicans have reasons to be nervous for other [reasons]. I'm not trying to judge. I want as many people vaccinated in as many ways, but I think when you come on the show and just say we're 'owning the libs,' it's just factually inaccurate about the demographics who are not getting the vaccine. It crosses the gamut."
As McCain continued shutting her down, Behar fired back, "A lot of these people that you're talking about, Meghan, are watching Sean Hannity ... and Tucker Carlson, who are telling them that it's danger — Excuse me, can I please finish the sentence?"
McCain, however, refused to back down, and shouted, "They are not! They are not!"
She continued, snapping, “Some of these women that I know are highly educated women."
As the two women continued shouting at each other, Goldberg cut the fiery segment off and went to commercial break.
(H/T: Rawstory)A Wyoming state senator who is running in the Republican primary election against Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wy.) admitted to having a relationship with and impregnating a 14-year-old girl when he was 18, disclosing the relationship in a Facebook Live video to supporters and to a local newspaper.
U.S. House candidate Anthony Bouchard, a gun rights activist, told the Casper Star-Tribune that he went public with the story after he became aware opposition researchers and an unnamed reporter were investigating his personal life. Bouchard, who has served in the Wyoming Senate since 2017, is one of the more prominent Republican challengers seeking to unseat Cheney for her vote to impeach then-President Donald Trump earlier this year.
"So, bottom line, it's a story when I was young, two teenagers, girl gets pregnant," Bouchard said in his Facebook Live video. "You've heard those stories before. She was a little younger than me, so it's like the Romeo and Juliet story."
Facing pressure to have the baby aborted, Bouchard instead married the girl when she was 15 and he was 19. He explained to the Tribune that they were both living in Florida at the time, and Florida state law permitted people to marry at any age with a judge's approval if a pregnancy was involved and a parent consented.
"A lot of pressure. Pressure to abort a baby. I got to tell you. I wasn't going to do it, and neither was she," he said. "And there was pressure to have her banished from their family. Just pressure. Pressure to go hide somewhere. And the only thing I could see as the right thing to do was to get married and take care of him."
The couple divorced after three years of marriage. Bouchard said that his ex-wife killed herself when she was 20, and the Tribune reported that online records list a woman with her name being buried in Jacksonville, Florida, in 1990.
"She had problems in another relationship. Her dad had committed suicide," Bouchard said in the video.
After his ex-wife's death, Bouchard said he raised their son, but is now almost estranged from him.
"Sadly, he's made some wrong choices in his life," he said. "He's almost become my estranged son. Some of the things that he's got going on his life, I certainly don't approve of them. But I'm not going to abandon him. I still love him. Just like when he was born."
Bouchard decided to go public with his story to get in front of a report about his previous marriage he expects will be published sometime soon. He told the Tribune his campaign was aware of a political opposition research company and a "U.K. media reporter" who were investigating his personal life. In his video, he slammed "dirty politics" and "the establishment swamp" for trying to discredit him without mentioning his conservative voting record.
"This is really a message about how dirty politics is," he said. "They'll stop at nothing, man, when you get in the lead and when you're somebody that can't be controlled, you're somebody who works for the people. They'll come after you. That's why good people don't run for office."
Bouchard committed to staying in the race, declaring himself the front-runner in a field of seven Republican candidates seeking to unseat Cheney.
"They wouldn't be doing this if I wasn't the front-runner," Bouchard said in the video. "I'm not controlled by leadership; they all know that. Everyone knows that. And if this is the best you've got, bring it on. Because I'm not intimidated. I've been pushed on and bullied all the time I've been in politics. Doesn't work. I don't really care. Bring it on."Former FBI Director Louis Freeh gave $100,000 to a trust for the grandchildren of President Joe Biden, according to newly surfaced emails. The financial contribution to Biden's family allegedly happened in 2016, when Biden was vice president. The ex-FBI director reportedly sent emails to Hunter Biden expressing that Freeh would like to work "with you and dad."
What did the new Hunter Biden emails say?
Freeh said he made a $100,000 donation to a private trust for two of Joe Biden's grandchildren, according to emails leaked from Hunter Biden's laptop that were published by the Daily Mail on Thursday night.
"As you know, our family foundation made a $100K contribution to Hallie's children's trust last year," Freeh allegedly wrote to Hunter on April 24, 2017. "My accountants (PWC) now advise that since the grant did not go to a 501(c) organization [a charity], it was not a proper foundation gift. So we've been in touch with the IRS and PWC and want to correct the situation as follows: I'll make a new $100k gift to Haley's trust, and Hallie's trust will reimburse the foundation by paying it $100k. Sorry for the extra burden. Best regards and warm regards to Hallie, Dad and Mom."
The generous "gift" was sent to the two children of Hallie Biden, the widow of Joe's late son Beau, who later became Hunter's lover.
"Thanks so much and of course no burden at all. Speak to you soon," Hunter Biden responded.
The Daily Mail published several communications between Freeh and Hunter dating back to mid-2016.
On July 8, 2016, Freeh allegedly emailed Hunter Biden in an email marked "confidential and privileged," which said the former FBI director told the then-vice president's son that he "would be delighted to do future work with you."
"I also spoke to Dad a few weeks ago and would like to explore with him some future work options," Freeh reportedly wrote. "I believe that working together on these (and other legal) matters would be of value, fun and rewarding."
"Have a great weekend and our love to Mom and Dad," Freeh allegedly signed off.
Freeh reportedly copied Hunter on an email sent July 21, 2016, in which the ex-FBI director discussed one of his clients, Beny Steinmetz.
Hunter replied on Aug. 24, 2016, to see if there was anything he could do to help.
Freeh reportedly replied, "I would like to talk with you and Dad about working together next year. No doubt both he and you have many options and probably some which are more attractive than my small shop," an apparent nod to his consultancy firm.
"As you know, we have both a law firm and 'solutions/investigations' group with a very good brand, DC and DEL (and NYC) offices, and a profitable and interesting global practice (eg., I'm currently representing the Malaysian PM and his family)," Freeh allegedly boasted. "So if it's something which interests you both, let's talk about it at some point. I'm very flexible and we could set it up as an equity-share or whatever works best. It would certainly be an honor to work with you both."
On March 12, 2017, Freeh allegedly sent an email to Hunter requesting his father's contact information.
"I say [saw] Dad in St Joe's and the 900a today and he said hi walking back from communion–I didn't get the chance to return greetings," Freeh purportedly said. "If you have his cell and a personal email, I'd like to have his contacts (will protect). I would still like to persuade him to associate with me and FSS —as we have some very good and profitable matters which he could enhance with minimal time."
The initials FSS are most likely a reference to the law firm of Freeh, Sporkin & Sullivan, where Freeh was a partner at the time along with Stanley Sporkin, who was previously the general counsel to the Central Intelligence Agency and chief enforcement officer at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Hunter replied with Joe's personal cell, and an email address for Kathy Chung, a staffer from Biden's vice presidential office who he kept on after leaving the White House," the Daily Mail reported.
Who is Louis Freeh?
Freeh is a former federal judge and served as the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation under Presidents Bill Clinton and Geroge W. Bush.
At the time of the emails, Freeh ran a consulting firm, which represented three wealthy individuals who were all later convicted on corruption charges.
Beny Steinmetz, an Israeli diamond and minerals magnate, was convicted last January of corrupting foreign agents and forging documents by a Geneva court. The billionaire, who was once named the richest person in Israel, was sentenced to five years in prison for allegedly bribing officials to control mines in Africa. Steinmetz is appealing the case.
Romanian real estate tycoon Gabriel Popoviciu, who was accused of fraud and corruption, was sentenced to seven years in prison in 2017.
Ex-Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak was sentenced to 12 years in jail after he was found guilty on all seven counts in the first of several multimillion-dollar corruption trials, according to the BBC.
Freeh served on the board of the Beau Biden Foundation, a Delaware-based charity to help prevent child abuse. In a 2014 press release, Freeh labeled Joe Biden and Beau Biden as "dear friends."A federal judge this week rejected a Christian college's request to bypass new rules under the Biden administration that force religious schools to open their dormitories — including shared bedrooms and shower spaces — to members of the opposite sex.
Judge Roseann Ketchmark issued the ruling Wednesday denying the College of the Ozarks a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction, which would have provided temporary protection for the school while its federal court case is pending.
The school filed a lawsuit in April arguing that the Biden administration was forcing religious schools to violate their beliefs by opening up female dormitories to biological males, and vice-versa, under subject of punitive damages, six-figure fines, and attorneys' fees.
After President Joe Biden issued an executive order titled, "Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation" in January, the Department of Housing and Urban Development put forward a directive in line with the administration's new interpretation of "sex."
The directive holds that entities covered by the Fair Housing Act cannot discriminate against someone based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. Meaning that a transgender person who is biologically male but identifies as a female must be permitted to share dormitory spaces such as bedrooms, bathrooms, and showers with female students.
"The government cannot and should not force schools to open girls' dorms to males based on its politically motivated and inappropriate redefinition of 'sex,'" Alliance Defending Freedom Senior Counsel Julie Marie Blake said in a statement. The religious liberty law firm is representing the school in its legal fight.
"Women shouldn't be forced to share private spaces — including showers and dorm rooms — with males, and religious schools shouldn't be punished simply because of their beliefs about marriage and biological sex," she added. "Government overreach by the Biden administration continues to victimize women, girls, and people of faith by gutting their legal protections, and it must be stopped."
The College of the Ozarks is a private, Christian, liberal arts college in Point Lookout, Missouri, that since its founding more than a century ago has held to a belief that biological sex is assigned by God and is unchangeable.
In response to the ruling, the school's president, Jerry Davis, acknowledged he and staff were "disappointed" in the ruling, but announced that they would be appealing "so that schools are not forced to open women's dorm rooms to males and violate their religious beliefs."
"For more than 100 years, College of the Ozarks has provided a distinctly Christian education to students with financial need. We will not abandon our mission. The fight to protect our religious freedom has just begun," he said."Every human being of adult years and sound mind has a right to determine what shall be done with his own body, and a surgeon who performs an operation without his patient's consent commits an assault, for which he is liable in damages." ~Supreme Court, Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health (1990)
"Breathing freely doesn't seem like something we should have to ask any other people permission for," said 10-year-old John in a now-viral video in front of the Martin County, Florida, school board. Well, Iowa has taken up that call and has now banned all school districts and local officials from ever instituting a mask mandate again. This should be a model in every red state.
Earlier this week, I called for all red states to pass "never again" legislation, ensuring that public health tyranny will never be attempted ever again by governors and mayors. The Iowa legislature has offered a model for doing so, at least for the masking issue. As part of a broader education tax credit package, the Iowa legislature passed HF 847 on Wednesday. It contains a provision barring all "authorities in charge of each accredited nonpublic school" from imposing a mask mandate on students and faculty. In addition, all cities and counties are precluded from forcing businesses to adopt a masking policy. The bill was signed by Gov. Kim Reynolds early Thursday morning.
"The state of Iowa is putting parents back in control of their child's education and taking greater steps to protect the rights of all Iowans to make their own health care decisions," said Gov. Reynolds. "I am proud to be a governor of a state that values personal responsibility and individual liberties. I want to thank the Iowa Legislature for their quick work in bringing this bill to my desk so that it can be signed into law."
It is shocking that not every red state has yet come to the realization that masking is immoral, especially for schoolchildren, and resolved to end the practice. Arkansas is the only other state to pass a statute forbidding future state and local mask mandates. Several governors have used executive orders to temporarily stop localities and school districts from requiring masks. North Dakota passed a bill (over Gov. Burgum's veto) blocking any statewide mask mandate in the future, but left local governments and school boards out of the ban. No other state appears to have taken precautions for the future.
Those precautions are absolutely necessary, because the mask cult is not over. Just yesterday, the CDC tweeted out a study warning about asymptomatic flu cases. Just a few days ago, Fauci suggested that mask-wearing could become the norm for flu season. Despite Fauci now admitting that asymptomatic transmission is "very, very low," they continue to use it as an excuse to mask everyone. The CDC's latest trial balloon tweet should serve as a warning to all of us.
The notion of masking being effective against a virus is so absurd that cases plummeted over 90% after Iowa terminated masking in early February, even as cases rose in neighboring masked states in the Midwest like Minnesota.
Indeed, with zero evidence masks have ever worked and with Fauci now admitting that in a post-vaccination world, masking is all "theater," to force someone to wear one is a violation of the First Amendment (in addition to the 14th Amendment) because it is compelling political speech. In Janice v. AFSCME, the Supreme Court observed, "Compelling individuals to mouth support for views they find objectionable violates that cardinal constitutional command, and in most contexts, any such effort would be universally condemned."
There is no greater example of compelling adherence to a cause than forcing someone to reduce their oxygen intake through the symbol of that cause. The fact that they place it over your mouth and shout, "Virus!" certainly makes it no better than forcing someone to wear a burka, a yarmulke, or a cross. If anything, the fact that it also covers one's breathing likely constitutes an illegal seizure, in violation of the Fourth Amendment. Such a requirement must be subject to strict scrutiny, which would force the government to produce evidence that its religious symbol achieves any vital state interest and is the least restrictive manner of doing so.
It's not too late to permanently ban masks even in the states where the legislatures have already adjourned. Every state will convene a special session at the end of the summer to redraw the election maps based on the new census. That will be our last chance this year to permanently codify into law that breathing is a human right and must never be infringed upon ever again. The best time to kick the mask cult is while it is still down.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has taken a break from flip-flopping on mask guidance to issue a stern advisory warning Americans against snuggling and kissing their backyard poultry.
What are the details?
On Thursday, the CDC announced a salmonella advisory.
Updated guidance on the organization's website reads, "Don't kiss or snuggle backyard poultry, and don't eat or drink around them. This can spread Salmonella germs to your mouth and make you sick."
The CDC issued the Thursday investigation notice after 163 confirmed cases of salmonella were reported across 43 states and stated that children under the age of 5 years have made up one-third of recorded salmonella infections.
The CDC's advisory added, "Don't let children younger than 5 years touch chicks, ducklings, or other backyard poultry. Young children are more likely to get sick from germs like Salmonella."
Severe Salmonella infection symptoms include chronic diarrhea and a fever higher than 102 degrees Fahrenheit, bloody diarrhea, extreme vomiting, dehydration, and more.
Advice to backyard flock owners includes hand washing.
"Always wash your hands with soap and water immediately after touching backyard poultry, their eggs, or anything in the area where they live and roam," the advisory read. "Use hand sanitizer if soap and water are not readily available. Consider having hand sanitizer at your coop."
The guidance added, "Collect eggs often. Eggs that sit in the nest can become dirty or break. Throw away cracked eggs. Germs on the shell can more easily enter the egg though a cracked shell. Rub off dirt on eggs with fine sandpaper, a brush, or a cloth. Don't wash them because colder water can pull germs into the egg. Refrigerate eggs to keep them fresh and slow the growth of germs."
The CDC also recommended that home cooks prepare eggs to an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit in order to kill salmonella germs.Pro-Palestine and pro-Israel demonstrators faced off Thursday in several skirmishes in New York City, even after Israel and Hamas implemented a ceasefire agreement following 11 days of firing rockets at one another in the Middle East.
In the Big Apple, fireworks were even set off in crowds amid clashes.
What are the details?
Israel reached on agreement with Hamas militants earlier in the day to begin a ceasefire at 2 a.m. Friday, which is 7 p.m. in New York City.
But scuffles continued in the city, with footage reportedly taken afterward showing what the NYPD initially speculated might have been a "smoke bomb" being thrown at a crowd of people in the Diamond District.
Further clips showed the aftermath and people's reactions.
Warning: strong language.
Footage after the incident also shows an individual lying unresponsive on the sidewalk as NYPD officers arrive at the scene. Pro-Palestine protesters can then be seen yelling, "F*** you, Zionists!"
The NYPD told the Daily Mail that some bystanders sustained minor injuries from the device going off. The New York Post reported that "fireworks were thrown from a car" in the incident on 47th Street," but "it was unclear which side lit them."
The police later confirmed to Fox News that "two commercial fireworks" were thrown from a vehicle.
Anything else?
Several other fights broke out Thursday evening in Times Square between pro-Israel and pro-Palestine protesters.
Fox News noted:
Pro-Palestinian protesters have marched in America's biggest cities for the last week and a half. Last Tuesday, thousands of protesters shut down traffic as they marched down 42nd Street in Manhattan.
Violence escalated around Israel at the beginning of last week, with Hamas firing a reported 4,000 rockets and the Israeli air force launching airstrikes throughout the Gaza Strip.A women's group has issued a scathing response after CNN admitted anchor Chris Cuomo joined calls advising his brother, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), on how to respond to a barrage of sexual harassment claims against the Democrat.
Feminist organization Ultraviolet called on the network to suspend the anchor immediately, arguing, "This was a major network news anchor advising the Governor of New York to actively push back against sexual harassment allegations and denegrate (sic) survivors."
What are the details?
On Thursday, The Washington Post reported that four sources say Chris Cuomo "joined a series of conference calls that included the Democratic governor, his top aide, his communications team, lawyers and a number of outside advisers" regarding the handling of several sexual harassment claims against the governor earlier this year.
The newspaper reported:
The cable news anchor encouraged his brother to take a defiant position and not to resign from the governor's office, the people said. At one point, he used the phrase "cancel culture" as a reason to hold firm in the face of the allegations, two people present on one call said.
CNN admitted that Chris was part of the strategy calls, saying in a statement, "Chris has not been involved in CNN's extensive coverage of the allegations against Governor Cuomo — on air or behind the scenes. In part, because, as he has said on his show, he could never be objective. But also because he often serves as a sounding board for his brother."
"However," CNN continued, "it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the Governor's staff, which Chris acknowledges. He will not participate in such conversations going forward."
What did the women's group say?
Not good enough, Ultraviolet says.
"Make no mistake - this wasn't just a brother talking to his brother about their lives, or even politics," the women's group wrote in reaction to the Post's story. "This was a major network news anchor advising the Governor of New York to actively push back against sexual harassment allegations and denegrate (sic) survivors of abuse by defining their calls for accountability as 'cancel culture.'"
The statement continues, "The fact that after this advice, Governor Cuomo instructed surrogates to attack and defame those who courageously came forward with their stories should not be lost on anyone."
Ultraviolet concludes:
"CNN should immediately suspend Chris Cuomo and conduct a thorough investigation into whether or not his position of authority at the network has impacted how others covered the allegations against his brother, Governor Cuomo. Anything less is unacceptable, and further harms survivors of sexual abuse, who are already disinclined to come forward for fear of retaliation from men in power like the Cuomo brothers."
Anything else?
CNN did not immediately respond to Fox News' request for comment on UltraViolet's statement.A surveillance video captured the moment a motorcycle rider and passenger crashed into a car that had pulled into busy traffic in Temple Hills, Maryland.
Both the rider and the passenger of the motorcycle were taken to a local hospital and are expected to survive.
The Prince George's County Police Department said they are looking for the driver of the white sedan that caused the accident about 2:30 p.m. Monday.
The collision was captured on a Ring security camera. The video shows the white sedan pulling into traffic and forcing a car in the first lane to stop. As it pulls into the second lane to try to make a left turn, the motorcycle plows into it and the rider and passenger are sent sailing over the car.
The resulting collision was so forceful that one of the red shoes of the victims can be seen flying off and landing many yards away in the parking lot.
Although the white sedan paused for a second after the collision, the driver flees the scene as bystanders go to help the victims.
"I turned around, and I just saw bodies going up in the air," said Daniel Rush, part-owner of the mattress store near the scene of the accident. The video came from the mattress store's Ring camera.
Rush said that many people ran out to help the victims of the accident.
"There's an accident here every couple of weeks. You've got a sign right there that is blocking people's view that's trying to get out," he explained.
Police said the crash is still under investigation as they seek the hit-and-run driver.
Here's the video of the Ring security video:The Associated Press faced bitter outrage from the left after the news agency fired a writer over anti-Israel political activities unearthed and publicized by a Republican college group.
Emily Wilder was a member of Students for Justice in Palestine at Stanford University and joined efforts to host a cartoonist who has been accused of employing offensive anti-Semitic tropes.
The Stanford College Republicans discovered the tweet where Wilder said she was hired by AP in April and led a campaign against her. Although many in the journalism world defended Wilder, by Thursday she was fired from her job.
Some in the mainstream media expressed outrage at the firing. Glenn Kessler of the Washington Post said the AP should have guided Wilder instead of caving to the "Twitter mob."
"Amazing how quickly a talented young reporter's career can be snuffed out by a Twitter mob that decided to feign outrage over some college tweets," he tweeted.
The AP says in its social media policy that employees should avoid "any postings that express political views."
The policy statement adds that AP staffers need to "be aware that opinions they express may damage the AP's reputation as an unbiased source of news. AP employees must refrain from declaring their views on contentious public issues in any public forum and must not take part in organized action in support of causes or movements."
The firing of Wilder comes at a time when the AP is facing questions about its presence in a building in the Gaza Strip where Hamas militants were also housed. That building was later targeted by an Israeli airstrike during its deadly conflict with Hamas.
"We are not surprised that Emily Wilder, a livid Anti-Israel Activist and Students for Justice in Palestine Leader at Stanford, has just been hired by the Associated Press as a new correspondent, especially in light of recent revelations regarding the Associated Press' ties to Hamas," said a spokesman for the Stanford College Republicans to The Federalist.
Here's more about the airstrike on the Hamas and AP offices:The House Ethics Committee has dropped the hefty $5,000 fines imposed against No. 3 Democrat Rep. James Clyburn (S.C.) and Kentucky Republican Rep. Harold Rogers (Ky.) for allegedly skirting past metal detectors while entering the chamber, after both men disputed the accounts made by Capitol Police.
What are the details?
The committee revealed Thursday that the appeals of Clyburn, 80, and Rogers, 83, would be granted and neither of the lawmakers would be charged, but the panel did not provide an explanation for the decision.
The Hill noted that the committee is split evenly between Republicans and Democrats, thus the majority opinion "indicates that the decisions regarding Clyburn and Rogers were bipartisan."
The Associated Press reported that both veteran congressmen had filed one-page letters "disputing the accusations" against them as reported by Capitol Police.
The committee was not as forgiving when it came to two other Republicans previously fined.
Reps. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) and Andrew Clyde (R-Ga.) were the first to be hit with such fines in February, but their appeals were both denied by the committee. GOP members argued at the time that Pelosi was seen skirting security, too, but she was never fined.
The Washington Examiner pointed out that "Clyburn's situation is similar to Gohmert, who said he walked to the House floor through a metal detector from one entrance and exited the floor briefly to use the same Speaker's Lobby restroom."
Gohmert was charged $5,000, while Clyde was fined $15,000 for two offenses. The Georgia lawmaker "said he plans to take the matter to federal court," Roll Call reported.
What's the background?
Following the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, new security checkpoints were set up outside the doors entering the House chamber. After pushback from GOP members, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) imposed a $5,000 fine for a first offense of dodging the metal detectors, and a $10,000 penalty for a second offense.Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige said in an interview that it was wrong to cast a white woman for the role of a character that was an Asian male in the comic book source.
Feige was referring to the casting of Tilda Swinton in the role of The Ancient One in the 2016 hit movie "Dr. Strange," based on the comic book.
While the movie director explained in 2016 that they were trying to avoid negative stereotypes associated with the original character, Feige now says it was a mistake to cast a white woman in the role.
He made the comments in an interview with Men's Health published Wednesday.
"We thought we were being so smart, and so cutting edge," Feige explained.
"We're not going to do the cliché of the wizened, old, wise Asian man," he added. "But it was a wake-up call to say, 'Well, wait a minute, is there any other way to figure it out? Is there any other way to both not fall into the cliché and cast an Asian actor?' And the answer to that, of course, is yes."
Feige said the studio is using that experience to help guide Marvel's newest movie, "Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings," whose title character is also based on an Asian comic book superhero.
"Dr. Strange" director Scott Derrickson told The Daily Beast in 2016 that when they tried to avoid one Asian stereotype, they bumped into another stereotype of the "Dragon Lady."
"We talked about Asian actors who could do it, as we were working on the script, every iteration of it — including the one that Tilda played — but when I envisioned that character being played by an Asian actress, it was a straight-up Dragon Lady," Derrickson said at the time.
"I know the history of cinema and the portrayal of the Dragon Lady in Anna May Wong films, and the continued stereotype throughout film history and even more in television," he explained.
"Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings" opens in theaters on Sept. 3.
Here's the trailer for Marvel's latest superhero movie:The mayor of Rochester, New York, is questioning the timing of authorities arresting her husband on felony drug and weapon charges, after he was arrested as part of an ongoing drug investigation this week.
What are the details?
Mayor Lovely Warren's (D) husband, Timothy Granison, emerged as a suspect three months ago in an investigation being conducted by Rochester police and the area's narcotics team, which was launched seven months ago.
Authorities said that once Granison became a target, the part of the probe involving Granison was taken over by State Police "to preserve the integrity of the investigation for obvious reasons," the Democrat & Chronicle reported.
On Wednesday afternoon, State Police pulled Granison over and found cocaine inside his vehicle, and in a following search of the home he shares with Warren, law enforcement discovered an unregistered handgun. A rifle was also seized, but it is unclear if that firearm is illegal.
Bearing Arms noted that just last week, Warren announced a gun buy-back program for the city of Rochester.
"Getting guns off our streets must be our priority," she said in a statement. "We must continue working together with our citizens to take these guns off our streets so our residents can feel safe in their neighborhoods and live the lives they deserve."
Warren's husband was one of seven people charged in the investigation that involved authorities finding more than two kilos of powder and crack cocaine, three firearms and $100,000 cash, according to Monroe County District Attorney Sandra Doorley (R).
Granison "previously served five years probation for a 1997 jewelry store robbery," according to The Daily Caller. He was charged with three felonies in connection with Wednesday's searches: two drug possession charges, and one weapons charge.
What did the mayor say?
The mayor held a news conference Thursday wherein she addressed the charges against her husband, as well as a separate ongoing investigation into her allegedly violating election laws.
Warren, who has served as mayor of Rochester since 2014, distanced herself from her husband, saying that she and Granison had signed a separation agreement years ago but the two had decided to stay together to co-parent their daughter.
The mayor also suggested she was being targeted at this time because it is three weeks before early voting starts in the mayoral election, and after she "announced we were moving forward with reparations and universal basic income."
She declared during the presser, "Some people would do anything to try and break me."Dr. Anthony Fauci said Wednesday that the public is misinterpreting the new guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on the mask mandate as it applies to unvaccinated people.
"It's important to understand what the new guidance on masks were directed at. It said that people who are vaccinated can now feel safe, that they do not need to wear a mask either outdoors or indoors," Fauci said during a virtual event on the COVID-19 vaccine rollout conducted by Axios.
"It did not say that people who are not vaccinated should abandon their masks," he explained.
"It said people who are not vaccinated should continue to wear masks and should get vaccinated. So I think people are misinterpreting, thinking that this is a removal of a mask mandate for everyone. It's not," Fauci added.
"It's an assurance to those who are vaccinated that they can feel safe, be they outdoors or indoors," he concluded.
Fauci went on to say it wasn't the public's fault that they misunderstood the guidance.
"It's not their fault," he added. "People either read them quickly, or listen and hear half of it."
Coronavirus infections and deaths have plummeted across the country at the same time that the number of Americans choosing to get vaccinated have risen quickly. Other countries have not been as fortunate — India especially is battling a skyrocketing death rate from the pandemic as hospitals are overwhelmed.
After the celebrated guidance from the CDC on May 13, officials later clarified that schools should continue to require face masks for kids and keep social distancing through the end of the school year.
Fauci also said in the virtual conference that the "standard classical" news media had done a good job of informing the public, but he decried "fringe" news outlets that spread conspiracy theories and fake news. He did not name those news outlets.
Here's the entire video of Fauci's comments:Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee say there is "significant circumstantial evidence" that the coronavirus originated from China's Wuhan Institute of Virology. The GOP report released Wednesday hints that the Chinese military could have been secretly working with the Wuhan Institute of Virology.
The report also suggests that the U.S. government "may have funded or collaborated" in the research that led to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Fox News.
Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), who serves as the ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and other Republicans on the committee released the 21-page report titled, "In Focus: COVID-19 and the Wuhan Institute of Virology."
"To prevent or quickly mitigate future pandemics, it's crucial for health experts and the U.S. Government to understand how the COVID-19 virus originated," the report states. "International efforts to discover the true source of the virus, however, have been stymied by a lack of cooperation from the People's Republic of China (PRC).
"Nevertheless, significant circumstantial evidence raises serious concerns that the COVID-19 outbreak may have been a leak from the Wuhan Institute of Virology," the report says.
The Republicans outline the evidence against China in the report:
China's history of research lab leaks resulting in infections.
Warnings from U.S. diplomats in China as early as 2017 that the Wuhan lab was conducting dangerous research on coronaviruses without following necessary safety protocols, risking the accidental outbreak of a pandemic.
Gain of Function research being conducted at the Wuhan lab that made coronaviruses more infectious in humans.
Several researchers at Wuhan lab were sickened with COVID-19-like symptoms in fall 2019.
The involvement in the Wuhan lab of the Chinese military, which has a documented biological weapons program.
Multiple indications of attempts by Beijing to cover up the true circumstances of the COVID-19 outbreak.
The Republicans argue that the Communist Party of China has provided "little circumstantial evidence" to the country's claim that coronavirus "was a natural occurrence, having jumped from some other species to humans." The lawmakers note that China has yet to "identify the original species that allegedly spread the virus to humans, which is critical to their zoonotic transfer theory."
They add that the "outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 and resulting COVID-19 pandemic could have been the result of an accidental leak from the WIV, particularly given the absence of credible information that supports a zoonotic transmission."
The report highlights that U.S. government agencies and academic institutions "may have funded or collaborated in Gain of Function research at the Wuhan lab."
Previously, Sens. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) have both questioned why the U.S. could be involved with gain-of-function research with the Chinese Communist Party. Paul has grilled Biden medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci about National Institutes of Health funding going to the Wuhan lab, and Johnson has demanded answers as to why the U.S. was cooperating with China in research. Both senators are concerned about gain-of-function research, where scientists deliberately make viruses more dangerous to humans in an effort to prepare for potential outbreaks, but presents a risk of an outbreak.
The report states, "At least some of this research was published even after the U.S. Government had paused these kinds of studies in the United States due to ethical concerns over their biowarfare applicability and their potential to accidentally unleash a pandemic."
"Beijing has hindered the conduct of a full, credible investigation," the Republican lawmakers say.
GOP House Intel members want the intelligence community to release all information it has about the origins of the coronavirus, and want a response by May 31.
Also on Wednesday, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky did not rule out that the coronavirus originated from a laboratory.
During Senate testimony, Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) asked Walensky, "What, in your opinion, was the origin of the virus?"
"I don't believe I've seen enough data, individual data, for me to be able to comment on that," Walensky replied.
Kennedy then pressed the CDC director, "What are the possibilities?"
"Certainly, the possibilities that most coronaviruses that we know of are of origin from — that have infected the population, SARS-CoV-1, MERS, generally come from an animal origin," Walensky responded.
"Are there any other possibilities?" Kennedy followed up.
"Certainly, a lab-based origin is one possibility," Walensky admitted.
Robert Redfield, the former CDC director, has gone on the record to say that he believes that the COVID-19 pandemic started when the virus escaped from the Wuhan lab.
"I'm of the point of view that I still think the most likely etiology of this pathology in Wuhan was from a laboratory — escaped," Redfield said in March. "Other people don't believe that. That's fine. Science will eventually figure it out.
"It's not unusual for respiratory pathogens that are being worked on in a laboratory to infect the laboratory worker," he said. "That's not implying any intentionality.""Precious cargo" indeed.
Within the harrowing account of a U.S. Army trainee going AWOL from Fort Jackson, South Carolina, and hijacking a school bus full of children as young as kindergartners is the heroic bus driver's recollection that his 18 young passengers played a very big role in everyone coming through the ordeal safely.
What are the details?
The driver, Kenneth Corbin, sat down for an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America" Monday and explained how the May 6 incident all went down.
Image source: "Good Morning America" video screenshot
"The kids were the ones that actually got the gentleman off of the bus, and they pretty much had my back as much as my concerns were with them," Corbin told "GMA." "And at the end when they started questioning him, it seemed to have frustrated him because his main objective [was] to get to the next town; but in the end I think we were only on the road about four miles, and he just got frustrated with the questions and just told me to stop the bus and just get off: 'All y'all get off.'"
The program noted that Jovan Collazo, 23, appeared to be trying to get home, according to police, and remains in custody facing two dozen charges, including 19 counts of kidnapping.
'Why are you doing this?'
Corbin had just gone through training on how to handle a hostage situation and tried to no avail to dissuade Collazo from entering — but Corbin told "GMA" the hijacker pointed his government-issued rifle at him and ordered him to "close the door and move and drive."
Image source: "Good Morning America" video screenshot
The hero driver added to "GMA" that the hijacker's "main objective was to get to the next town" — but that about every 500 feet he would ask how much more they needed to travel. Corbin told the program that he informed Collazo they needed to drive another 15 to 20 miles to get the next town.
The hijacker also moved all the children scattered throughout the bus up front in one group so he could keep an eye on them — "and when he did that, especially some of my kindergarteners, they started asking him questions," Corbin recalled to "GMA."
He added to the program that the students asked Collazo if he was a soldier — to which he "hesitantly answered ... 'yes, I'm a soldier.'"
"They asked him, 'Why are you doing this?' And he never did have an answer for that one," Corbin recounted to "GMA." "Then they asked was he gonna hurt them; he said 'no.' They asked was he gonna hurt our bus driver; and he said, 'No, I'm going to put you off the bus.' He sensed more questions coming ... I guess something clicked [in] his mind and said ... 'enough already,' and he just told me to ... 'stop the bus right here, and just get off.'"
Image source: "Good Morning America" video screenshot
Then it was over. Collazo was arrested soon after.
'My heroes'
Corbin told the program that for him "it was just a matter of just staying calm and following his instructions and thinking about the kids, because I didn't want to do anything that would, you know, rile him to cause him to do something that would bring harm to my kids."
The hero driver added to "GMA" that it was "so evident that they were precious cargo, and I pretty much just had to just do whatever, you know, to get them off the bus safe and sound."
Corbin also noted to the program that "it seemed as if their goal to do the same by me, and that's why I refer to them as my heroes."Oregon lifted the face mask mandate for people who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, but also implemented a stipulation that a business or church must require maskless entrants to show proof of their coronavirus vaccination. The business or house of worship must then review the vaccination card to ensure that it is authentic.
Last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that fully vaccinated Americans could go maskless outdoors and in most indoor settings. On Tuesday, the Oregon Health Authority updated its mask guidelines.
"All businesses, employers and faith institutions are required to continue to apply and enforce the mask, face covering and face shield guidance, and physical distancing requirements in state COVID-19 guidance to all individuals," the guidance states. The business, employer, and faith institution can allow individuals without face masks and not enforce social distancing if the institution has a "policy for checking for proof of vaccination status of individuals."
The organization must request "proof of vaccination status from each individual" and review each person's proof of vaccination before they are granted entry.
Fully vaccinated individuals in Oregon are still required to wear masks and observe physical distancing on public transportation, in schools, hospitals, clinics, homeless shelters, correctional facilities, and long-term care facilities.
The decision to require proof of vaccination arrived after many people, including several cable TV talking heads, were frightened that the new CDC guidance on mask-wearing only by those who are not fully vaccinated was "throwing caution to the wind." Numerous people were concerned that those who were not vaccinated would take advantage of the honor system and simply not wear a mask and claim they are vaccinated against COVID-19.
Dr. Leana Wen, former head of Planned Parenthood and a CNN analyst, applauded the decision to require proof of vaccination, "Oregon has it right—honor system can't be trusted."
Meanwhile, independent journalist Jordan Schachtel said the authoritarian move hearkened back to the Nazis demanding identification from citizens at random stops or at checkpoints, "The Corona fascists are celebrating Oregon's rollout of their 'show me your papers' system."
There are concerns about Oregon's new policy forcing businesses to have the responsibility to be the vaccination card police.
"We have serious concerns about the practicality of requiring business owners and workers to be the enforcer," Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman for Oregon Business and Industry, which represents companies like Nike, told the New York Times. "We are hearing from retailers and small businesses who are concerned about putting their frontline workers in a potentially untenable position when dealing with customers."
There are some who believe that the new guidance will entice people to obtain fake vaccination cards. There are also apprehensions about revealing health information to private businesses.
Charles Boyle, a spokesman for Gov. Kate Brown (D), was asked if there would be penalties for businesses that allowed maskless customers entry without verifying their vaccination status, and he responded, "In the past year state agencies have issued fines for businesses that are out of compliance with health and safety guidance."
OHA director Patrick Allen said, "Masks continue to save lives and protect people who are not vaccinated. However, last week's announcement from the CDC emphasizes the point that safe and effective vaccines are the very best way to protect people from getting and spreading COVID. That's why it's safer for life to look more like normal for people who are fully vaccinated. And why people who haven't had a chance to get vaccinated should do so as soon as they can."
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, both Republicans, have banned government-mandated COVID-19 vaccine passports.
The new restrictions arrive at the same time that five counties in Oregon voted to leave the state and its left-leaning governance for a more conservative Idaho.An end to the violent 11-day conflict between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip appears to be imminent as reports surfaced Thursday afternoon that Israel's security cabinet had unanimously approved a ceasefire.
The two sides were said to be ironing out specific details Thursday on when the ceasefire would be implemented and for how long, and now multiple reports indicate that it will begin at 2 a.m. local time (or 7 p.m. ET Thursday).
Channel 12 News in Israel indicated that the ceasefire was mediated through discussions with neighboring country, Egypt, and that the two sides had come to an agreement on halting the military attacks. Though Israel reportedly made it clear that the ceasefire is subject to full cooperation from Hamas.
"According to sources who attended the cabinet meeting, the [Israel Defense Forces] will immediately cease its attacks in the Gaza Strip. If Hamas continues to fire, the IDF will return to attack and the ceasefire will be canceled immediately," the outlet reported.
A Hamas official reportedly told Reuters the ceasefire will be "mutual and simultaneous."
The development comes following reports Wednesday that the two sides were hopeful a ceasefire could be reached, even as airstrikes and rocket fire continued on in the region.
"I think that the ongoing efforts regarding the ceasefire will succeed," Hamas political official Moussa Abu Marzouk said Wednesday. "I expect a ceasefire to be reached within a day or two, and the ceasefire will be on the basis of mutual agreement."
President Joe Biden — who had voiced support for Israel's right to defend themselves to the ire of some progressive lawmakers within the Democratic Party — had ramped up pressure on Israeli leaders to end the fighting in recent days.
Over the course of 11 days of intense fighting, hundreds of rockets have been fired at Israel from Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip. Many were successfully intercepted by the country's acclaimed Iron Dome defense system, however, some breached the barrier and struck civilian areas. In response, Israel returned fire.
In all, at least 12 Israelis, including two children, and at least 232 Palestinians, including 65 children, have died as a result of the conflict.The elderly Asian woman at the center of a now-infamous and brutal attack in March in New York City is breaking her silence. Although she's not fully healed, she wants the world to know that she has forgiven her attacker — and that she's praying for him.
What's the background?
On March 29, 65-year-old Vilma Kari found herself the victim of a violent attack outside an apartment building on Manhattan's Lower East Side. The video of the attack, which went viral, showed the attacker shoving Kari to the ground, kicking her stomach, and stomping on her. He also reportedly shouted anti-Asian slurs at her and told her, "F*** you, you don't belong here."
Also shown in the video were two doormen at the building where the attack occurred who witnessed the attack but did not intervene to protect the victim. In fact, one of the employees could be seen closing the door while the elderly woman lay on the ground following the beating and as the suspect ran off.
The two doormen were suspended shortly after the video was made public. The company fired the pair just days later.
The suspect, Brandon Elliot, who was convicted of murdering his own mother in 2002 and had been on lifetime parole after being released from prison on 2019, has a history of mental illness and was living at a homeless shelter a few blocks from the scene of the attack, Newsweek reported.
What is the victim saying now?
Kari sat down for an interview with ABC News' Juju Chang, a portion of which was shared on "Good Morning America" Thursday. She told Chang that she was on her way to church when the attack happened — and now, nearly two months later, she's recovering and has something to say about the man who beat her.
Image source: ABC News video screenshot
Cops said Kari suffered a broken pelvis and head injuries. Kari, who is still using a walker, said she's on the mend, but she's not fully recovered yet.
“Physically, I am healing well but mentally, emotionally, I'm not there yet," she told Chang.
But she had an even bigger message to share: She's praying for Elliot.
"My attacker, I prayed for him, because I felt he needed prayer," Kari said.
Chang pressed her on that, wondering why she would pray for her attacker.
"Because that's the only thing I could do for him in the hope that maybe someday he reforms or he finds the right medicine, whatever [is] needed," she answered.
"Vilma, guys, is literally fighting hate with love," Chang concluded.CNN anchor Chris Cuomo inappropriately participated in conference calls with his brother, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), and the governor's staff, giving advice on how the governor should respond to multiple allegations of sexual harassment levied by several women earlier this year, the Washington Post reported Thursday.
CNN admitted in a statement that Cuomo, one of the network's leading anchors, participated in the strategy calls with the New York governor's top advisers and said it was wrong for him to do so.
"Chris has not been involved in CNN's extensive coverage of the allegations against Governor Cuomo — on air or behind the scenes," the network told the Post. "In part because, as he has said on his show, he could never be objective. But also because he often serves as a sounding board for his brother.
"However, it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the Governor's staff, which Chris acknowledges," the statement added. "He will not participate in such conversations going forward."
While anchoring his nightly news program on CNN, Cuomo "joined a series of conference calls that included the Democratic governor's top aide, his communications team, lawyers and a number of outside advisers," according to anonymous sources who spoke to the Post.
The calls happened earlier this year as scandal erupted around the governor, who is accused of non-consensual touching or making unwanted sexual advances towards aides who worked in his office and other women.
The governor vehemently denied the allegations against him and has resisted calls to resign from Democratic lawmakers and lashed out at his opponents, vowing not to bow to "cancel culture." He said he apologizes if he unintentionally made some women feel uncomfortable, but denies that "feeling uncomfortable" is equivalent to sexual harassment. A 2019 law Cuomo signed defines sexual harassment as "unwelcome verbal or physical behavior based on a person's gender."
At least part of the governor's defiant response seems to be a strategy suggested by his younger brother, the cable news anchor.
Chris Cuomo reportedly "encouraged his brother to take a defiant position and not to resign from the governor's office," the Post reported. "At one point, he used the phrase 'cancel culture' as a reason to hold firm in the face of the allegations, two people present on one call said."
CNN, which has happily provided a propaganda platform for the New York governor on "Cuomo Prime Time," said their anchor Cuomo will not face disciplinary action for this violation of journalistic norms.
Gov. Cuomo's conduct is currently under investigation by the state attorney general and the state Assembly. Cuomo has announced that he would seek re-election in 2022.Comedian Chris Rock says that cancel culture is disrespectful to audiences and is leading to "boring" entertainment across the board.
Rock made the remarks during an interview with "Breakfast Club" hosts Angela Yee and DJ Envy on Monday.
What are the details?
Rock told the hosts that he believes canceling an entertainer will only set the industry and its players up for failure.
"It's weird when you're a comedian because when your audience doesn't laugh, we get the message. Like, you don't have to cancel us." he said. "They're not laughing. Our feelings are hurt. When we do something and people aren't laughing we get it. I don't understand why people feel the need to go beyond that."
The 56-year-old comedian added that the very idea of telling the audience where or how to find humor is disrespectful.
"Honestly to me, it's people disrespecting the audience," he continued. "Like, 'Oh, you think you know more than the audience?' The audience knows more than everybody!"
Rock added that as a result, comedians and entertainers are forced to play it safe and bland out of fears of alienating the general public and saying or doing something offensive.
"What happens is everybody gets safe and nobody tries anything. Things get boring," Rock said. "I see a lot of unfunny comedians, unfunny TV shows, unfunny movies because people are scared to make a move and that's not a good place to be. We should have the right to fail because failure is a part of art."
"It's the ultimate cancel, but now you got a place where people are scared to talk. 'That's not — especially in America — you're scared to talk, but that's what people want, you gotta make adjustments and, you know, let's do it," he added.A gay New York City police officer blasted an LGBTQ group for banning NYPD cops from the city's annual Pride March and related events — a move that will be in effect until at least 2025.
What's the background?
Over the weekend, NYC Pride announced the police ban as part of an effort to make LGBTQ individuals feel "safer" and challenge officers to "acknowledge their harm." The group's press release argued that the move would "create safer spaces for the LGBTQIA+ and BIPOC communities at a time when violence against marginalized groups, specifically BIPOC and trans communities, has continued to escalate."
What did the police officer who disagrees have to say?
The ban didn't sit well with Ravi Satkalmi, a gay man who's deputy director of intelligence analysis for the NYPD's Intelligence Bureau.
So Satkalmi penned an op-ed for the New York Daily News, noting that in June 2019 — while delivering the first-ever security brief to the LGBTQ community in preparation for Pride — he "took the opportunity to publicly acknowledge my identity as a gay man, knowing I had the support of my colleagues and my leadership."
He added, however, that he didn't expect that "just two years after NYPD welcomed me out of the closet ... Heritage of Pride would effectively try to shove me back in."
Noting that Heritage of Pride is the organizing body of NYC Pride, Satkalmi said the group "indefensibly decided to ban law enforcement from its events — including the flagship Pride March — until at least 2025. The move makes absolutely clear that one has to choose between being gay or being in law enforcement, recreating for queer officers the unconscionable conundrum that we have fought decades to banish. The irony would be laughable if it wasn't maddeningly absurd."
Satkalmi added in his op-ed that previous to that day in 2019, he was involved with the Gay Officers Action League, which "advocates for and implements law enforcement reforms responsive to the needs of LGBTQIA+ officers and public. GOAL's leadership and support allowed me to finally reconcile my public service with my private self. I took to the stage in 2019 to pay it forward."
More from Satkalmi's Daily News op-ed:
I had assumed then that Heritage of Pride, which had been a close partner of GOAL and which relied on the NYPD for the security of their highest-profile event, would support us. Instead, with this ban, it drastically undercut our ability to encourage LGBTQIA+ law enforcement members to stand up and be counted. For a new gay officer or recruit who is struggling with whether to come out, the message is unmistakable: The LGBTQIA+ community will not support you.
The move is self-defeating. There is no progress without people willing to do the work inside of organizations whose cultural inertia makes them resistant to change. Those people, in turn, need the support of the larger LGBTQIA+ community. I know such support exists more broadly. For several years, I've marched with GOAL for Pride alongside uniformed and civilian professionals representing a number of domestic and international law enforcement agencies. Each time our presence on the route has been met with deafening cheers, high-fives, and sincere embraces from the community. Given that support, the ban is a bewildering move by Heritage of Pride to drive apart natural partners in change. In an age of meme-derived capital valued in likes, shares and views, the decision is yet another example in which performative politics is mistaken for thoughtful deliberation and real effort.
Satkalmi concluded his piece by declaring that he's a "gay, non-Christian, person of color, and first-generation American serving with NYPD. People like me exist: those whose personal identity may fly in the face of activists' expectations of what our role in change should be."
He added that efforts by Pride officials to keep him "hidden" are "enraging": "I've spent far too long coming out of the closet to be put back in now."Republican lawmakers in Tennessee are demanding answers in response to shocking news that the Biden administration is secretly busing and flying scores of illegal immigrants into the state.
What are the details?
Reports that the Biden administration has been moving thousands of unaccompanied minors and tens of thousands of migrant adults — presumably without court dates — into the country amid the ongoing border crisis have circulated since February. But this week the news hit home for Tennessee lawmakers who, alarmed that the administration is seemingly doing so "under the cover of darkness," have opted to speak out about the matter.
After WRCB-TV broke the story on Wednesday night that "Chattanooga's Wilson Air Center is receiving planes carrying migrant children who are being bused to multiple southeastern cities during overnight hours," the state's two Republican senators lashed out at the administration.
"It is absolutely unacceptable if the Biden Administration is facilitating a mass migration under cover of darkness without any input or oversight from Tennesseans and the affected communities," Sen. Marsha Blackburn wrote in a social media post Wednesday night.
In a statement to Fox News, Sen. Bill Hagerty said, "I have warned for months that President Biden's failure at the border would result in a systematic resettling of migrants in our communities, burdening our schools, hospitals, and law enforcement agencies, and bringing an increase in drug trafficking and human smuggling."
WRCB-TV reported that they have obtained videos of at least four flights arriving in the early morning hours between last Friday and Wednesday.
The news outlet noted that a source with direct knowledge of the operation who asked to remain anonymous reported that "approximately 30 to 50 minors are transported at a time, some to reunite with family members and others to go to group homes."
The source reportedly added that "the operation started in Dallas, Texas, but moved to small airports recently to avoid attention."
What else?
A spokesperson for the airport denied any involvement in coordinating the operation. So WRCB-TV, based on a tip from one of the bus employees, reached out to the Department of Defense, which in turn claimed that the flights were operated by the Department of Health and Human Services.
TheBlaze has reached out to the Department of Health and Services for clarity on the matter.
One thing that does appear to be clear at this point is that Tennessee lawmakers were not informed about the operation.
In a separate statement to Fox News, Blackburn reportedly stated that the transportation of migrants is taking place in "the dead of night without the knowledge or permission of the communities involved."
Earlier this month, in a letter to President Joe Biden, Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee (R) joined a coalition of fellow Republican governors in calling for the administration to address the immigration crisis, which they claimed was affecting all states, not only those at the border.Bisexual actress Anna Paquin hit out at critics who said that she isn't "queer enough" because she's married to a man.
Paquin has been married to fellow actor Stephen Moyer since 2010.
What are the details?
The actress entered the comments section of one of her recent Instagram posts to tackle critics.
Paquin, 38, recently posted on Instagram a reminder that LGBTQIA+ Pride Month begins in June.
The graphic read, "Hey! FYI (for those unaware) June is LGBTQIA+ pride month. So the folks who put their bigotry on display in the comment sections of my recent posts why don't you hit that unfollow button right now."
In the comments, she added, "[A]nd go f*** yourselves. #bipride #lgbtquiapluspride[.]"
Image source: Instagram.com screenshot
In a comment later shared to Paquin's Instagram story, People reported that a social media user blasted the actress because they were "tired of seeing 'bi' celebrities constantly advocate for it only to end up conventionally married to men with multiple children, living out the so-called white-picket-fence life."
Paquin hit back and said, "Ah yes ... the 'you aren't queer enough' BS," and added, "I'm a #proudbisexual who is married to a wonderful human who happens to be a man. ... If he doesn't have a problem with it why should anyone else?"
What else?
In 2014, Paquin told late legendary broadcaster Larry King in 2014 that just because she is married to a man doesn't mean her bisexuality is a "past-tense thing."
"Are you still straight if you're with somebody? Doesn't mean you're not, if you were to break up with them or you were to die. It doesn't prevent your sexuality from existing. It doesn't really work like that," she insisted.
In 2012, the actress told the now-defunct Zooey magazine that her sexuality is but a "minor biographical detail" but believes speaking up for members of the LGBTQIA+ community is vastly important.
"If you're going to talk about some cause in a way that's meaningful, you should identify why it means something to you," Paquin said at the time. "For a bisexual, it's not about gender. That's not the deciding factor for who they're attracted to."Hamas has been bombarding Israel with rockets over the last several days in its latest efforts to violently challenge the United States' top ally in the region. Over the last week and a half, Hamas terrorists have fired more than 4,000 rockets at Israel, the nation's air force said, according to the Associated Press.
As Hamas rockets continued to rain down on Israeli communities, left-wing Democrats in the U.S. Congress were spending their time trying to stop President Joe Biden from selling arms to Israel that the nation could use to defend itself against terrorism.
What happened?
The Biden White House approved a $735 million sale of weapons to Israel, the Washington Post revealed Monday. These weapons include JDAMs, or Joint Direct Attack Munitions, which, Fox News said, are tail kits that convert "dumb" bombs into precision-guided missiles. Analysts believe JDAMs have been instrumental in the recent cross-border conflict with Hamas.
According to the Post, the administration notified Congress of the planned sale on May 5, five days before recent hostilities began. The declaration is required under law, and lawmakers have 15 days to object with a nonbinding disapproval resolution.
In the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) has been leading the charge to kill the arms deal, along with known anti-Israel Democratic Reps. Rashida Tlaib (Mich.) and Ilhan Omar (Minn.), who called the potential sale "appalling."
AOC, along with Tlaib and Rep. Mark Pocan, introduced a resolution Wednesday to block the arms sale.
In a statement on the resolution, the democratic-socialist lawmaker said, “For decades, the U.S. has sold billions of dollars in weaponry to Israel without ever requiring them to respect basic Palestinian rights. In so doing, we have directly contributed to the death, displacement and disenfranchisement of millions," the Post reported.
And she took to Twitter to claim that the move was all about protecting human rights and allege that Israel has been targeting civilian and media sites.
"The United States should not be rubber-stamping weapons sales to the Israeli government as they deploy our resources to target international media outlets, schools, hospitals, humanitarian missions and civilian sites for bombing," Ocasio-Cortez said. "We have a responsibility to protect human rights."
Israel has said that JDAMs have been used for the Gaza airstrikes and in other similar situations in order to avoid harming civilians, which is the opposite of what Hamas has done with its indiscriminate bombing of Israeli cities.
On the U.S. Senate side, avowed socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) said he plans to introduce a similar resolution Thursday to stop the weapons sale, the Post reported.
"At a moment when U.S.-made bombs are devastating Gaza, and killing women and children, we cannot simply let another huge arms sale go through without even a Congressional debate," Sanders tweeted.
"I believe that the United States must help lead the way to a peaceful and prosperous future for both Israelis and Palestinians," he continued in a follow-up tweet. "We need to take a hard look at whether the sale of these weapons is actually helping do that, or whether it is simply fueling conflict."
Though the Sanders resolution will likely get an up-or-down vote, its fate is uncertain, the Post said. Should it get the 51 votes needed for passage, it would still need to pass the House, which AOC and her ilk would likely support it.
The president, however, would have the power to veto the resolution. If he did, both congressional chambers would need to rally two-thirds of their respective bodies to overturn the veto.Army veteran, conservative media personality, and former BlazeTV host Graham Allen is running for Congress in South Carolina to unseat a GOP incumbent who voted to impeach former President Donald Trump.
Rep. Tom Rice (R-S.C.), who represents the Myrtle Beach area, was one of 10 House Republicans who surprised both his colleagues and his constituents by voting to impeach Trump after the violence at the Capitol on Jan. 6.
Allen, who served two tours in Operation Iraqi Freedom and is a contributor to Turning Point USA, said Rice's vote to impeach Trump was a betrayal of the voters in South Carolina's 7th Congressional District.
"Tom Rice abandoned his duty to represent the conscience of the voters of his district when he sided with Nancy Pelosi to support the sham impeachment of President Donald J. Trump. South Carolina's 7th Congressional District voters overwhelmingly endorsed President Trump's America First agenda twice at the ballot box. But Congressman Rice betrayed their confidence when he caved to the far-left mob and their enablers in Big-Tech and the mainstream media," Allen said in a statement announcing his candidacy.
"Sadly, it is all too often we see politicians like Tom Rice, who, after nearly a decade in office, tend to lose touch with their voters and begin to substitute their interests over that of their constituents. The fact is we can no longer count on Congressman Rice," he continued. "We don't know when he'll cave to Pelosi and Biden next as they throw open our borders, make it easy to cheat in our elections, and tax and spend us into oblivion while working to remake America into a socialist nation."
Allen, who resides outside the district in Anderson, S.C., is campaigning as a strong supporter of Trump, championing issues like election integrity, border security, defending the First and Second Amendments, and opposing President Joe Biden's economic agenda.
Just two days after announcing his run for Congress, Allen reported raising over $100,000 for his campaign.
He joined a crowded field of Republican candidates challenging Rice, who remains unapologetic for his vote to remove Trump from office.
In January, Rice explained in a statement that "any reasonable person could see the potential for violence" after Trump gave a speech to his supporters on Jan. 6 repeating claims that the 2020 presidential election was stolen and that Congress was illegitimately certifying the Electoral College results for Joe Biden.
"Once the violence began, when the Capitol was under siege, when the Capitol Police were being beaten and killed, and when the Vice President and the Congress were being locked down, the President was watching and tweeted about the Vice President's lack of courage," Rice said. "For hours while the riot continued, the President communicated only on Twitter and offered only weak requests for restraint."
"I have backed this President through thick and thin for four years. I campaigned for him and voted for him twice. But, this utter failure is inexcusable."
On Wednesday, Rice was one of 35 House Republicans who broke ranks with Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) and supported a bill to create a "9/11-style" commission to investigate the Jan. 6 riot.
"[The] Capitol was ransacked, police were beaten and five people were killed. I was shocked and angered. As members of Congress, we took an oath to defend our democracy. I believe we must fully know the facts and causes of the event in order to secure our Capitol and ensure our democracy remains intact for future generations," Rice said in a statement after his vote.
According to Federal Election Commission filings, Rice is sitting on a campaign war chest of more than $1.3 million to fund his re-election campaign.A school bus driver has admitted to slapping a 10-year-old girl for not wearing her face mask properly. The Colorado school bus driver caught on video slapping the young girl has since been fired and faces multiple charges.
A surveillance camera caught Bertram Jaquez on camera smacking a student in the face over a mask dispute. The video shows the bus driver confronting the girl at her seat on the vehicle. She allegedly moved the mask under her nose because she said, "I get sick from mask[s]," according to a statement the girl wrote about the incident that occurred in Fremont County.
Other children on the bus told the unnamed girl to put her mask back on. The girl wrote that she "yelled at them and said you shut up your [sic] not involved in this." When she didn't put her mask on correctly, the other kids informed the bus driver.
The bus driver told the child to put her mask all the way on, but she refused. "Out of reaction, I slapped her once," Jaquez said in a written statement to the school district.
In her written statement to the school district, the 10-year-old girl said, "The bus driver slapt [sic] me."
Jaquez was immediately placed on administrative leave after the video surfaced and is reportedly no longer employed by the school district.
"Our school community is experiencing a very unfortunate situation," a spokesperson for the Fremont County School District said in an email. "We have had a bus driver strike a child over the child not wearing a mask on the bus."
KKTV published the statement from the Fremont County School District on the incident:
We believe it is never okay to lay a hand on a child. The District responded quickly to the situation by placing the driver on administrative leave so that we could fully investigate the incident. Local police were involved during the investigation as well as us being in contact with the child's family. The driver's action justified termination of employment, as it goes against District policy and our values. We are very saddened by this incident. Our goal every day is to transport students safely to school and back home, but that can only happen when everyone, including students and staff, follows the rules. We are currently working to identify next steps to help our drivers with strategies designed to support a safe ride to and from school.
The disturbing incident was investigated by the Fremont County Sheriff's Office. Jaquez reportedly faces misdemeanor charges, including harassment, assault causing injury, and child abuse.
Content warning: Disturbing video:
This ugly school incident stemming from face coverings comes less than a week after a video of a Wisconsin teacher verbally abusing a student for not wearing a mask went viral. The teacher was caught on video calling the high school student a "jerk" and a "dummy."Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot (D) said this week that she's granting one-on-one interviews only to black and brown journalists in order to commemorate the two-year anniversary of her 2019 election.
What are the details?
Lightfoot confirmed the move on Tuesday after several members of the local media on social media accused her of refusing interviews based on reporters' skin color.
In a two-page letter to local media, Lightfoot said that the decision pertained to honoring her two-year anniversary in office.
"By now you may have heard the news that on the occasion of the two-year anniversary of my inauguration as Mayor of this great City, I will be exclusively providing one-on-one interviews with journalists of color," the letter began.
Lightfoot's letter continued, "As a person of color, I have throughout my adult life done everything that I can to fight for diversity and inclusion in every institution that I have been a part of and being Mayor makes me uniquely situated to shine a spotlight on this most important issue."
Lightfoot also said that she was "struck" from her first day on the 2018 campaign trail "by the overwhelming whiteness and maleness of Chicago media outlets, editorial boards, the political press corps, and yes, the City Hall press corps specifically."
She also encouraged media to diversify its staff.
"In looking at the absence of diversity across the City Hall press corps and other newsrooms, sadly it does not appear that many of the media institutions in Chicago have caught on and truly have not embraced this moment," Lightfoot added, complaining that the City Hall press corps is "practically all white."
“Many of them are smart and hard-working, savvy and skilled," she admitted, "but mostly white, nonetheless."
In her letter, Lightfoot also complained that there were no female reporters of color covering city hall.
A Wednesday report from WBEZ-FM, however, pointed out that two of three WBEZ reporters covering city hall are Hispanic and South Asian women respectively.
Later in her letter, Lightfoot added that it also isn't her "job" to police diversity in all of the areas of the city, specifically in the news media.
“[T]he truth is, it is too heavy a burden to bear, on top of all the other massive challenges our city faces in this moment, to also have to take on the labor of educating white, mostly male members of the news media about the perils and complexities of implicit bias," she insisted. “This isn't my job. It shouldn't be. I don't have time for it."
Lightfoot also told WGN-TV reporter Tahman Bradley, "I'm thinking in this one day when we are looking at the two-year anniversary of my inauguration, as a woman of color, as a lesbian, it's important to me that diversity is put front in [sic] center."
What else?
The New York Post reported that a "Lightfoot spokesperson later clarified that the protest only pertains to interviews about her anniversary in office."
Lightfoot's remarks received a bevy of criticism on Wednesday, with many members of the media condemning the stance, which some said was racist.
WMAQ-TV political reporter Mary Ann Ahern reported that Lightfoot's spokesperson said that the mayor is "granting 1 on 1 interviews," but only to "black or brown journalists."
Paris Schutz, "Chicago Tonight" co-anchor and political correspondent for WTTW-TV, chimed in and responded that he was "told the same thing."
George Cardenas, a city alderman, added that the decision "should be corrected."
Later in the day, Latino reporter Gregory Pratt condemned the news on social media, where he wrote, "I am a Latino reporter @chicagotribune whose interview request was granted for today. However, I asked the mayor's office to lift its condition on others and when they said no, we respectfully canceled."
"Politicians don't get to choose who covers them," Pratt added.
On Wednesday, journalist Zaid Jilani accused Lightfoot of using "publicity stunts" such as this to detract from the idea that the Chicago mayor is an inept leader.
Jilani took to Twitter and wrote, "Lori Lightfoot presided over an enormous increase in homicides, almost all of them in African American or Latino communities, and she's hoping these PR stunts get liberal America to give her a pass for failing to save people's lives."Pennsylvania Republicans got a big win earlier this week after voters decided to make it easier for the state legislature to limit the emergency powers of the governor — in this case, Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf, WHYY-TV reported.
What are the details?
The decision came through a pair of ballot measures voters narrowly passed, the station said.
Republican lawmakers — who control the legislature — have struggled with Wolf over his orders in response to COVID-19 over the last year, WHYY said, adding that their efforts to curtail Wolf's orders through legislation, which requires a two-thirds majority, and in court have failed.
But now one of the constitutional amendments voters approved gives lawmakers the ability to end emergency orders with a simple majority vote, the station said. The second measure limits the governor's emergency orders to 21 days.
More from WHYY:
The state's current COVID-19 emergency order, last renewed for 90 days in February, is set to expire this week ahead of business restrictions lifting on Memorial Day. It's unclear at the moment if Wolf intends to renew the declaration to give his administration the flexibility to extend lockdowns if cases were to suddenly rise. The other new law would limit that order to 21 days.
House Majority Leader Kerry Benninghoff and Speaker Bryan Cutler, both Republicans, said in a joint statement that their victory doesn't mean COVID-19 responses will be handled irresponsibly, the station said.
"This decision by the people is not about taking power away from any one branch of government," Senate President Jake Corman and Majority Leader Kim Ward, both Republicans, said in a joint statement, according to WHYY. "It's about re-establishing the balance of power between three equal branches of government as guaranteed by the constitution."
What did Wolf have to say?
A Wolf spokesman said the administration declined to comment until the official results come in, the station said, although the state's Emergency Management Agency criticized the amendments, saying they "have the potential to politicize future disasters and their management" and that the agency is "extremely disappointed that our efforts ... could be constrained by partisan politics, which has no place in emergency response efforts."
Anything else?
But the Wall Street Journal's editorial board applauded voters' decision to make it easier to limit Wolf's emergency powers, calling it a "rebuke" of his "endless pandemic diktats." Still, the piece cautiously wondered "whether Mr. Wolf will deign to obey the voters or look for some legal ruse to get around them."PolitiFact, the purported "fact-checking" website known for making blatantly partisan and false claims against Republicans and conservatives, has removed a fact-check that accused Fox News host Tucker Carlson of promoting a "ridiculous" conspiracy theory about the origins of COVID-19.
A September 15, 2020, article written for PolitiFact by Daniel Funke asserted that Carlson, who hosts the most-watched program on cable network television, "aired a conspiracy theory that has been debunked since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic." The so-called conspiracy theory was that the SARS-CoV-2 virus does not occur in nature and was created in a virology lab, a hypothesis that is now gaining mainstream credibility with scientists and researchers who want to investigate the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic.
On Monday, PolitiFact archived the fact-check and added the following editor's note:
When this fact-check was first published in September 2020, PolitiFact's sources included researchers who asserted the SARS-CoV-2 virus could not have been manipulated. That assertion is now more widely disputed. For that reason, we are removing this fact-check from our database pending a more thorough review. Currently, we consider the claim to be unsupported by evidence and in dispute. The original fact-check in its entirety is preserved below for transparency and archival purposes. Read our May 2021 report for more on the origins of the virus that causes COVID-19.
PolitiFact's original fact-check addressed claims made on Carlson's program by Dr. Li-Meng Yan, a whistleblower from Hong Kong who said the virus that causes COVID-19 was manufactured in a lab and the Chinese government released the virus intentionally.
"The consensus of the scientific community and international public health organizations is that the coronavirus emerged from bats and later jumped to humans," PolitiFact stated, disputing Yan's claims.
"Scientists worldwide have publicly shared the genetic makeup of the coronavirus thousands of times. If the virus had been altered, there would be evidence in its genome data," the fact-checker asserted. "But there isn't. In March, several microbiology, infectious disease and evolutionary biology experts wrote in Nature — a respected scientific journal — that the genetic makeup of the coronavirus does not indicate it was altered."
The fact-check goes on to cite opinions from the World Health Organization, Dr. Anthony Fauci, and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that said evidence suggested the virus was not man-made.
"The genetic structure of the novel coronavirus, which has been shared by thousands of scientists worldwide, rules out the possibility that it was manipulated in a lab. Public health authorities have repeatedly said the virus was not created in a lab. Scientists believe the coronavirus originated in bats before jumping to humans. Experts have publicly rebuked Yan's paper, and it's unclear whether it was peer reviewed," PolitiFact concluded.
"The claim is inaccurate and ridiculous. We rate it Pants on Fire!"
Several high-profile scientists do not believe the claim is "ridiculous." In a letter published on May 14 in Science, a journal of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a group of prominent epidemiologists and biologists called for more investigation into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Theories of accidental release from a lab and zoonotic spillover both remain viable," the scientists wrote. "Knowing how COVID-19 emerged is critical for informing global strategies to mitigate the risk of future outbreaks."
The letter criticized a joint study conducted by China and the World Health Organization that investigated the origins of COVID-19.
"Although there were no findings in clear support of either a natural spillover or a lab accident, the team assessed a zoonotic spillover from an intermediate host as "likely to very likely," and a laboratory incident as "extremely unlikely," the scientists pointed out. "Furthermore, the two theories were not given balanced consideration. Only 4 of the 313 pages of the report and its annexes addressed the possibility of a laboratory accident."
TheBlaze reached out to FOX News Media seeking comment from a spokesperson for "Tucker Carlson Tonight" on PolitiFact's retraction.Google Docs will roll out a new feature this year prompting users to be more inclusive by suggesting alternatives to "ableist" and "unnecessarily gendered" language.
According to Fox Business, the feature will be introduced as a part of Smart Canvas, a new collaboration tool in Google Workspace designed to make Docs, Sheets, and Slides more "flexible and connected."
What are the details?
While unveiling Smart Canvas at a conference in Mountain View, California, Tuesday, Google general manager Javier Soltero, who oversees Google Workspace, presented what some of the language prompt changes will look like.
One example, which he shared during the conference, demonstrated how Google's revamped assisted writing capabilities would suggest a user change the word "chairman" to "chair" or "chairperson."
In an updated Google developer "inclusive documentation" style guide, the software company previews several other hypothetical suggestions it will make, including changing entire sentences.
If a user writes the sentence, "Before launch, give everything a final sanity-check," Google will suggest writing, "Before launch, give everything a final check for completeness and clarity," instead.
Similarly, if a user writes, "There are some crazy outliers in the data," Google will advise going with, "There are some baffling outliers in the data."
The new assisted writing capabilities will also take aim at gender-exclusive language. The style guide recommends writing "Equipment installation takes around 16 person-hours to complete" rather than "Equipment installation takes around 16 man-hours to complete."
"When trying to achieve a friendly and conversational tone, problematic ableist language might slip in," the style guide explains. "This can come in the form of figures of speech and other turns of phrase."
"Be sensitive to your word choice, especially when aiming for an informal tone," the guide continues. "Ableist language includes words or phrases such as crazy, insane, blind to or blind eye to, cripple, dumb, and others. Choose alternative words depending on the context."
As for gender-inclusive language, the style guide advises that "in addition to being mindful of the pronouns used in narrative examples," users should "be sensitive to other possible sources of gendered language."
What else?
The style guide also recommends users not be "too culturally specific to the US" and to be "mindful when referring to specific holidays."
Furthermore, it advises users to "avoid referring to people in divisive ways" and "avoid using socially-charged terms for technical concepts where possible."
As examples, Google recommends users avoid "referring to people as native speakers or non-native speakers of English" and avoid using terms "such as blacklist, native feature, and first-class citizen, even though these terms might still be widely used."The animosity between the two ratcheted up during the 2020 presidential campaign, as the duo took turns lobbing insults at one another. Obama called Trump a " two-bit dictator ," in what was a departure from the unwritten rule that American presidents shouldn't disparage their successors. In early 2020, there was also a feud between the two on who was responsible for the "economic boom" in the United States. A new book claims that Obama not only attacked Trump publicly, but also lashed out at Trump in expletive-laced tirades behind the scenes.
According to the upcoming book, titled "Battle for the Soul: Inside the Democrats' Campaigns to Defeat Donald Trump," Obama castigated then-President Donald Trump while speaking to donors and political advisers ahead of the 2020 presidential election. Obama denounced Trump with a flurry of insults, many of which including vulgar language.
"More often: 'I didn't think it would be this bad.' Sometimes: 'I didn't think we'd have a racist, sexist pig.' Depending on the outrage of the day … a passing 'that f***ing lunatic' with a shake of his head," Obama said of Trump, according to the book written by Atlantic staff writer Edward-Isaac Dovere.
"He's a madman," Obama allegedly told "big donors looking to squeeze a reaction out of him in exchange for the big checks they were writing to his foundation."
Dovere noted that Obama unleashed his strongest condemnation of Trump when he was "speaking to foreign leaders — including Vladimir Putin, amid the investigation of Russian election interference and links between Trump and Moscow — without any aides on the call," according to the Guardian , which published excerpts of the book.
"'That corrupt motherf***er," Obama allegedly said of Trump for holding phone calls with the Russian president without aides on the line, according to the book that will debut next week.
Dovere claims that during the 2016 Republican primary, Obama originally preferred Trump to be the GOP presidential nominee because he saw him as a weaker presidential candidate than Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). "Trump was nowhere near as clever as the hard-right Texas senator, the runner-up in the Republican primary in 2016," the Guardian reported of Dovere's book.It's official. Children are less at risk of serious illness from COVID than literally any other ailment that afflicts them, yet they are the last people our government is setting free from the clutches of COVID tyranny. We have always known that children tend to get less sick from COVID than from a seasonal flu. But two new studies from California demonstrate that the risk is even lower than previously thought.
Yesterday, New York magazine published a story highlighting new studies showing that the pediatric hospitalization numbers for COVID have likely been dramatically inflated throughout the country. The first study, published in the official journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics, was conducted by Stanford researchers and examined 117 reputed COVID hospitalizations among those under 18 at a children's hospital in Northern California. They found that just 7.7% exhibited severe illness and 12.8% critical illness. Overall, 45% were classified as "unlikely to be caused by SARSCoV2," and it appears that most of the others weren't suffering life-threatening illness.
The second study, published in the same journal, found in America's fifth-largest hospital that, among patients younger than 22, 40% had "incidental infection," only 47% were "potentially symptomatic," and just 14% were "significantly symptomatic." They further found that "Fifty-five percent of incidental and 47% of potentially symptomatic patients had at least one identified comorbidity, while 90% of significantly symptomatic patients had at least one."
As Drs. Monica Gandhi and Amy Beck wrote in a commentary for Hospital Pediatrics that accompanied the two studies, "Taken together, these studies underscore the importance of clearly distinguishing between children hospitalized with SARS-CoV-2 found on universal testing versus those hospitalized for COVID-19 disease." They further conclude that the data also "greatly overestimate the true burden of COVID-19 disease in children."
If so many of the pediatric hospitalizations are wrongly ascribed to COVID, then how many of the already very few pediatric COVID deaths are also among individuals who died with COVID, not because of it? The CDC has already stated based on an analysis of death certificates that 35.2% of all reputed pediatric COVID deaths "could not be plausibly categorized as either a chain-of-event or significant contributing condition."
Yet, appallingly, so many schools are still requiring children to remain masked until they get an experimental vaccine that can only potentially harm them and not help them. Children already are de facto vaccinated by God. A new study published in Science magazine shows blood taken from kids before the pandemic contains memory B cells that bind SARSCoV2. "These findings suggest that encounters with coronaviruses in early life may produce cross-reactive memory B cell populations that contribute to divergent COVID-19 susceptibilities," suggest the Stanford University researchers.
Just how strong is the immunity of children? Phil Kerpen calculated the numbers of age-stratified risk of COVID using the CDC's mortality numbers and assumed for good measure that the Pfizer shot is 97% effective. Even under such a scenario, unvaccinated children are still less at risk than vaccinated young adults and 100 times less at risk than vaccinated 75+-year-olds!
Consider the fact that Dr. Fauci now admits that if people are vaccinated, even if they can still get the virus asymptomatically, their risk of spreading it is "very very low." Well, in January, the CDC already conceded, "Children might be more likely to be asymptomatic carriers of COVID-19 than are adults." Consequently, it admits that because asymptomatic people really do not spread very often, that is likely the reason why we never experienced outbreaks in schools. "This apparent lack of transmission [in schools] is consistent with recent research, which found an asymptomatic attack rate of only 0.7% within households and a lower rate of transmission from children than from adults," wrote the CDC in a January 29 report.
In other words, children already are more vaccinated with immunity than adults can ever achieve even under the most bullish outcome of the vaccine. And unlike with these experimental mRNAs, God's vaccine for children comes risk-free.The state of Oregon is literally driving residents away with its progressive policies.
On Tuesday, thousands of residents from rural counties in the Beaver State voted for their elected officials to consider seceding from the state and becoming part of conservative neighbor Idaho.
Disgruntled voters in Sherman, Lake, Grant, Baker, and Malheur counties voted in favor of the proposition, joining two other counties — Union and Jefferson — that already approved the move during the November election, the Idaho Statesman reported.
With the majority of constituents voting in favor of the resolution, county commissioners in each of the seven counties are now reportedly tasked with meeting together to discuss moving forward with the measure.
The push is part of larger initiative called "Greater Idaho," which aims to relocate as many as 22 Oregon counties to a state that more accurately represents them politically.
On the project's website, organizers argue, "The purpose of having state lines is to allow this variance. The Oregon/Idaho border was established 161 years ago and is now outdated. It makes no sense in its current location because it doesn't match the location of the cultural divide in Oregon."
And it's not only unhappy Oregon counties that the project is after. Greater Idaho is looking to attract more conservative counties in southeastern Washington and northeastern California, as well.
Idaho Republican Gov. Brad Little is reportedly in favor of the measure, but acknowledged that it has a long way to go before becoming a reality.
He said in a statement, "I understand why many people want to be Idahoans. They're looking at Idaho fondly because of our strong economy, regulatory atmosphere and our values. Still, the decision to change Idaho and Oregon's borders would need to go through both states' legislatures and the U.S. Congress for approval. There's a lot that needs to happen before the border is within the realm of possibility."
As Little stated, the measure would need to be approved by both the Idaho and Oregon state legislatures before heading to the U.S. Congress, which is currently controlled by Democrats, for final approval. It's safe to say that, at this point, the move looks like a long shot to succeed.
But organizers of the project call the move a "win-win" for the interests of each of the states involved, since the proposal is not aiming to create a new state and thus will not affect the balance of power in the U.S. Senate.
Nevertheless, despite its current prospects in the state legislatures and U.S. Congress, it appears that the movement is picking up steam among residents.
"This election proves that rural Oregon wants out of Oregon. If Oregon really believes in liberal values such as self-determination, the Legislature won't hold our counties captive against our will," Mike McCarter, president of Citizens for Greater Idaho, said in a news release. "If we're allowed to vote for which government officials we want, we should be allowed to vote for which government we want as well."A Delaware Democratic state senator was accused of punching a woman in the side of her head amid a domestic dispute Sunday and later was arrested on misdemeanor charges of offensive touching and disorderly conduct.
What are the details?
Delaware State Police said troopers were dispatched to the Taverna Rustic Italian Restaurant in Wilmington around 6:20 p.m., where a 44-year-old woman said state Sen. Darius J. Brown, 39, punched her in the side of her face after the pair began arguing about a social media post.
Police said after Brown assaulted the victim, he got up from the booth where he and the victim were sitting and threw a glass of water, which shattered. Brown then left the restaurant and wasn't there when police arrived.
The victim sustained some redness to the side of her face but did not require any medical attention, police said.
Troopers then obtained warrants for Brown's arrest on misdemeanor charges of offensive touching and disorderly conduct, police said.
Brown turned himself in Tuesday and was processed and arraigned, then released on his own recognizance, although he was given a no-contact order with the victim, police said.
'Presumption of innocence'
Brown was absent from Tuesday's legislative session, and WDEL-FM said he didn't return the station's request for comment.
Dave Sokola — a Democrat and the state Senate's president pro tempore — told WDEL he'd consider taking formal action against Brown but that "presumption of innocence" must be maintained.
"Accusations of domestic violence are serious and in direct conflict with the values of the Delaware Senate Democratic Caucus," Sokola said, according to the station. "However, a presumption of innocence is one of the most sacred principles in the American criminal justice system. I will carefully consider whether any formal actions are warranted in the coming days as we learn more about this incident."
Call for resignation
Jane Brady, chairwoman of the Delaware Republican Party, called for Brown to resign if the allegations are true, according to the Cape Gazette.
"The behavior that has been reported, if true, is reprehensible and warrants his resignation," Brady said in a press release, the paper noted. "If Senator Brown refuses to resign, we call on the Senate to conduct an inquiry and expel him for conduct unbecoming an elected official."
More from the Gazette:
Brady cited to the bipartisan effort to expel former Republican Rep. John Adkins of Millsboro. "The circumstances are remarkably similar to the Adkins matter. In that case, Republicans recognized the need to act and did so. The Democrats should hold the members of their caucus to the same high standard," she said.
In 2006, then Republican representative Atkins, was stopped in Ocean City for suspected driving under the influence and a few hours later was charged with offensive touching in connection with an argument with a former wife. He resigned his seat but was re-elected in 2008, running as a Democrat. Atkins retained the seat by 69 seats in a 2012 challenge by Republican Rich Collins, but lost the seat by 352 votes in 2014 to Collins, who has held the seat since.A brutal attack at a Georgia Little Caesars has gone viral on the internet as police continue to search for a suspect they believe was involved in the bloody battery.
What are the details?
The suspect, 25-year-old Brittany Kennedy, is accused of brutalizing a fellow Little Caesars patron on Monday, reportedly leaving the victim bruised and bloodied.
Augusta police responded to the scene just after 4 p.m. local time for a fight in progress.
Authorities at the Richmond County Sheriff's Office said that Kennedy reportedly confronted the victim, 22-year-old Emily Broadwater, while the two were at the restaurant and yanked a chair out from underneath the victim.
The viral video picks up as the suspect grabs Broadwater by the head and hair and repeatedly punches her. A young child immediately runs over and attempts to help her mother as someone screams, "Move the baby! Move the baby!"
Employees can be seen standing behind the counter observing the beatdown while patrons rush to get the small child out of harm's way. After pulling the child from the fracas, employees and bystanders step back and let the attack unfold without intervening. As the attack continues, at least one bystander even opens the door so the suspect could successfully drag the victim out of the store.
The video continues and shows the suspect dragging the victim by the hair out of the eatery's front door and onto the concrete outside. The suspect continues punching the victim as she holds her by a handful of hair and stomps on her head no less than two times before leaving the premises.
Broadwater, whose blood is freely streaming down her face at this point, is able to get to her feet and cries "My baby!" as she heads back toward the restaurant.
The Richmond County Sheriff's Office shared a wanted poster featuring Kennedy's picture on Tuesday.
In a statement, Little Caesars said, "The safety of our crew members and customers is the most important thing to us. In any case where a customer or employee is in danger, we advise our crew members to call the police immediately."
A deputy's report, which was obtained by Augusta Crime, detailed some of Broadwater's injuries, which included cuts, bruises, and more.
"I observed that the victim had a swollen and black left eye," the deputy wrote in the report. "Her bottom lip had a large laceration on the inside and was severely swollen. She had a large knot on her forehead, and multiple cuts on her head, face, and neck. She did not lose consciousness."
It is unclear at the time of this reporting what prompted the brutal assault on the young woman.Phil Robertson says the problem with America is clear in how we make our rice. In this episode of "In the Woods," Phil shares his method for the best way to cook rice and talks about why our culture is collapsing around us. Remember: It's hard to love your neighbor if you're not prepared to practice hospitality and share when God's people are in need.
Watch the video clip below to hear Phil explain:
Want more from Phil Robertson?
To enjoy more of this Duck Dynasty star's 70 years of unfiltered wisdom and uncensored common sense, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Two former Colorado police officers have been criminally charged in connection with the arrest of a 73-year-old dementia patient last year, which landed the elderly woman in a hospital.
The woman, Karen Garner, had left a Walmart without paying for $13.88 worth of items, and the former members of the Loveland Police Department were later seen on surveillance footage laughing and joking about the incident.
What are the details?
Ex-cops Austin Hopp and Daria Jalali, the first two officers to arrive on scene in the June 2020 incident, both face multiple charges, according to the New York Daily News.
Hopp has been charged with two felonies, second-degree assault and attempt to influence a public servant, and a misdemeanor charge of first-degree official misconduct. Jalali has been charged with three misdemeanors: failure to perform the duty to report excessive use of force, failure to perform the duty to intervene in excessive use of force, and first-degree official misconduct.
Hopp was the arresting officer and first to arrive, finding Garner in a field picking flowers. Body camera footage shows him throwing Garner to the ground to handcuff her. Jalali arrived on the scene later, and video shows Garner being thrown against a patrol vehicle as officers push her left arm behind her back and up near her head.
Witnesses were also seen stopping to protest the officers' roughness with the elderly Garner, but officers dismissed their concerns.
Last month, video was released by the Garner family's attorney showing Hopp and Jalali laughing and joking about Garner's arrest as they held her detained in a cell at the station. Hopp could be heard telling his colleagues, "Ready for the pop? Listen to the pop," while watching video of Garner's arrest.
"What did you pop?" one officer asks Hopp, who replies, "I think it was her shoulder."
Officer Dalali can be seen laughing along with other officers at some points in the surveillance video, but eventually asks, "Can you stop it now?" covering her head while the bodycam footage plays.
She also states, "I hate this," before Hopp says, "I love it."
Dalali can also be seen checking in on Garner in her cell.
Both Hopp, Jalali, and a third officer were gone from the department soon after the surveillance video was released, Police Chief Robert Ticer announced.
According to a lawsuit against the department filed by Garner's family, the dementia patient did not receive medical assistance for six hours after the violent arrest, and was later found to have suffered a dislocated shoulder, a sprained wrist, and a broken arm stemming from the incident.
She has also been moved from her home into an assisted care facility, which family members say was due to her dementia being exacerbated by the trauma she experienced during the arrest.The New York City Department of Education featured a drag queen known as Little Miss Hot Mess in a show aimed at 3- to 8-year-olds — aired on PBS — wherein the performer and author declared, "I think we might have some drag queens in training on our hands!"
What are the details?
The Daily Caller first reported on the episode of a series called "Let's Learn," which is a partnership between PBS member station WNET-TV and the NYCDOE. It aims to help "children 3-8 with at-home learning" with programs featuring "instruction by educators and virtual field trips."
"I am a drag queen and a children's book author," Little Miss Hot Mess begins, "and you may be wondering to yourself: 'What on earth is a drag queen?'"
The host then described drag queens in part as "everyday people who like to play pretend and dress up as often as we can," going on to say drag queens "also are leaders in our community, and if you ask me: we make pretty good role models."
After the lengthy description, Little Miss Hot Mess declares, "Today I'm going to read from my own book, which is 'The Hips On the Drag Queen Go Swish Swish Swish,'" performing it to the tune of "The Wheels on the Bus."
The author explained, "I wrote this book because I wanted everyone to get to experience the magic of drag and to get a little practice shaking their hips or shimmying their shoulders to know how we can feel fabulous inside of our own bodies."
At one point, Little Miss Hot Mess tells her audience, "I think we might have some drag queens in training on our hands."
When asked for comment on the show, a PBS spokesperson "emphasized repeatedly that Let's Learn is not a PBS series but was made available to PBS stations," the Caller noted.
Anything else?
Little Miss Hot Mess is also reportedly one of the founding members of Drag Queen Story Hour, which boasts events throughout the nation with drag queens reading to children at public libraries and schools.
Last year, one Missouri lawmaker who introduced a bill to stop the Drag Queen Story Hour events in his state reported receiving death threats for proposing the legislation.
"It's an issue of protecting our kids from what I believe is a concentrated effort to push the LGBTQ agenda onto our children," Rep. Ben Baker (R) told the Daily Caller in a separate report at the time. "Even worse than that, subjecting them to unwanted advances by people that I believe have nefarious intentions for children. And that's my concern."Firefighters made a gruesome discovery when a woman called them panicking after she awoke in her Texas apartment to find blood being spattered onto her from her ceiling fan.
Ana Cardenas was understandably distraught when she called 911 from her apartment in El Paso.
She told KTSM-TV that she was sleeping when she was awakened about 4 a.m. by the sensation of a liquid spattering onto her, her bed, and the rest of her bedroom.
It was human blood and other bodily fluids dripping through her ceiling fan.
"It grossed me out, I was in shock, I thought this isn't real this is a dream, wake up. I called maintenance and they said are you sure and I said blood is falling on me," Cardenas said in a translation from Spanish.
The blood was spattered onto her bed, the walls, her furniture, and in her hair.
Firefighters later broke down the door to the apartment directly above hers and found the corpse of her neighbor right above her fan.
Cardenas said the man above her was between the ages of 55 and 70, and that police told her he died of natural causes.
They believe the man had been decomposing for up to six days.
She said that he was laying on carpet but the blood had seeped through that and through the ceiling into her apartment.
"They took my fan down and a pool of blood came pouring down," Cardenas told KTSM.
The story got even worse.
She said that Cielo Vista Apartments told her that her losses would not be covered by their insurance. And although they disinfected her apartment, she showed KTSM that there were flies buzzing in the bedroom and a foul odor remained.
Cardenas says she is traumatized from the incident and can't eat or sleep. She opened a GoFundMe account to help her pay her relocation costs and has raised over $15,000.
Here's a local news report of the gruesome story:The House voted overwhelmingly Wednesday evening to set up a bipartisan 9/11-style commission to investigate the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol by a mob of Trump supporters, with dozens of Republicans breaking with their leadership by voting in favor of the measure.
What are the details?
In a 252 to 175 vote, the Democrat-controlled House passed the bill, with 35 GOP members voting "yes" despite Republican leadership urging them to vote against it, CNN reported. No Democrats voted against it.
All 10 of the Republicans who voted for impeaching former President Donald Trump for allegedly inciting the riot voted in favor of setting up the commission, and they were joined by another 25 GOP members — 14 of whom are members of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, according to CBS News.
The day before, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) expressed his opposition to the deal, arguing that there are already "ongoing bipartisan investigations into all facets of the January 6 events" in the Senate.
McCarthy and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) initially said Trump bore some responsibility for the attack on the Capitol despite voting against impeachment. In recent days, both came out against forming the commission.
The legislation now heads to the Senate where it faces "an uphill climb to 60 votes to defeat a filibuster" given McConnell's opposition, NBC News reported.
What else?
Ahead of the vote on Wednesday, a letter was released on U.S. Capitol Police letterhead condemning McCarthy and McConnell for opposing the commission, wherein unnamed officers from the force purportedly wrote:
It is inconceivable that some of the Members we protect, would downplay the events of January 6th. Member safety was dependent upon the heroic actions of the USCP. It is a privileged assumption for Members to have the point of view that 'It wasn't that bad.' That privilege exists because the brave men and women of the USCP protected you, the Members."
But the USCP quickly issued a statement saying that the letter "is NOT an official USCP statement," reiterating that the department "has no way of confirming it was even authored by USCP personnel" and that they do "NOT take positions on legislation."
The communications director for South Carolina Rep. Nancy Mace (R) accused Democratic Rep. Jamie Raskin (Md.) of being behind the unsigned letter on USCP letterhead.
The aide tweeted, "Blasting out an anonymous statement on official Capitol Police letterhead condemning one party to Hill staff and reporters is atrociously manipulative. Raskin and his office should be ashamed."
Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton promoted the unendorsed letter, too.Democrat Sen. Liz Warren (Mass.) offered up some misleading numbers in order to advocate for her far-left wealth tax proposal, but Republican Rep. Dan Crenshaw (Texas) set her straight on Twitter.
Warren offered a well-worn argument in support of raising taxes on the wealthy in a tweet Monday.
"The 99% in America paid 7.2% of their total wealth in taxes last year, while the top 0.1% paid only 3.2%. The wealthy and well-connected need to start paying their fair share," Warren said.
While the statistic Warren quoted was accurate, it offered a skewed view of who actually takes on most of the tax burden.
Crenshaw offered the other side of the argument.
"Very weak argument, Senator. Facts: The top 1% pay about 40% of total federal revenue," Crenshaw responded.
"The bottom 50% of earners pay about 3% of total federal revenue. Use all the data Senator. It will make you better informed," he added.
Warren's intellectual sleight of hand involved calculating the rates according to the wealth of each group and not the income of each group, which is how taxes are collected.
A chart from the Heritage Foundation offered further clarification on how progressive the tax system already is in the U.S.
Image Source: Heritage Foundation website screenshot
According to figures from the Internal Revenue Service, the top 1% garnered 21% of all income earned, but paid 40% of all income taxes.
Similarly, the top 5% garnered 37% of all income earned, but they paid 60% of all of the income taxes.
Some economists warn that the kind of wealth tax scheme proposed by Warren and other Democrats would harm the economy and hurt those they intend to help the most.
Here's more about Warren's wealth tax proposal:Pat Gray cringed at CNN anchor Chris Cuomo melting down as he defended abortion. "I hesitate to play this next clip. I don't know if I can handle it," Pat said humorously. According to Cuomo, "pro-lifers" use the abortion issue to "divide lines, legislate to the far-right white-fright vote (...) It's just like voting rights in one way." Cuomo went on to give a convoluted overview of what he considers a threat to Roe v. Wade. "The far right only cares about humans before they are born," Cuomo said in an overconfident voice. You do not want to miss Pat's reaction.
Watch the clip below for the full rant. Can't watch? Download the full episode here.
Want more from Pat Gray?
To enjoy more of Pat's biting analysis and signature wit as he restores common sense to a senseless world, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.First lady Jill Biden had a strong reaction to now-Vice President Kamala Harris attacking her husband during the first Democratic primary debate, reportedly saying Harris could "go f*** herself" after the then-senator suggested her husband was a racist.
What are the details?
Fox News reported that the claim is made by journalist Edward-Isaac Dovere in his forthcoming book, "Battle for the Soul: Inside the Democrats' Campaigns," due out next week. Dovere, who has reported for The Atlantic and Politico, was the first to break the news when Harris ended her failed campaign for president.
Harris came out swinging against Biden over remarks he made about working with segregationist lawmakers during his Senate career, and over his previous stance against federally-mandated busing to desegregated schools.
According to Dovere's book, "She was searching for some way to condemn him for what he had said and done without attacking the man she like and respected," after her campaign had told her she "had to land hard on Biden" in the debate.
Harris told Biden in the June 2019 debate, "I do not believe you are a racist, and I agree with you when you commit yourself to the importance of finding common ground. But I also believe — and it's personal — it was hurtful to hear you talk about the reputations of two United States senators who built their reputations and career on the segregation of race in this country."
"And it was not only that, but you also worked with them to oppose busing," she continued. "And, you know, there was a little girl in California who was part of the second class to integrate her public schools, and she was bused to school every day. And that little girl was me."
Dovere's reports that according to multiple sources, Biden leaned over to fellow candidate Pete Buttigieg during the following commercial break and said, "That was some f***ing bullsh**."
A week later, on a phone call with donors, Mrs. Biden weighed in on Harris' attacks on her husband.
"With what he cares about, what he fights for, what he's committed to, you get up there and call him a racist without basis?" the now-first lady reportedly said. "Go f*** yourself."The official account for the Boston Celtics quickly deleted a tweet touting their star player after many online complained that he was wearing the famous "Don't Tread on Me" design of the Gadsden Flag.
Quick-thinking Twitter users posted screenshots of the deleted tweet of point guard Kemba Walker with the design on the back of his jacket.
The historical Gadsden Flag has come to symbolize resistance to government authority and was taken up by the conservative Tea Party movement in opposition to the expansion of government under former President Barack Obama.
Some on the left have claimed that the historical symbol has taken on racist and white supremacist meaning in order to smear those wearing the design.
"If you're from the south especially you probably know about the don't tread on me flag. How in the hell does that flag make it on the back of Kemba Walker?" replied one critic on Twitter.
"The boston celtics posting a pic of kemba walker in a neo nazi jacket is so aggressively on-brand for that city," read another tweet.
"Kemba walker came to the game dressed in the racist snake flag. Somebody flagrant foul him real quick," replied another critic.
'It went with my sneakers'
Walker said in his post-game interview that he didn't have any special message behind wearing the symbol.
"Was there any message? No," said Walker. "I...I'm kinda confused about the question."
"People just noted it on social media," the reporter replied, "they just thought it was a cool jacket, I didn't know, the 'Don't Tread on Me' thing on the back, I didn't know if there was anything to it, or just a fashion statement?"
"I have no idea. The colors looked good, it went with my sneakers, that's all," Walker said.
The controversy was drowned out by Walker's standout performance in the game against the Washington Wizards that helped propel the Celtics into the NBA playoffs.
Here's the post-game interview with Walker:Left-wing Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot garnered a lot of attention over the last 24 hours following her declaration that she would no longer grant one-on-one interviews to white reporters — only "black or brown journalists" would be permitted to be graced with her presence.
The fallout among the general public was pretty strident, with many commenters wondering just how the media would react if a white mayor did something similar to minority members of the media.
One high-profile Latino journalist in the Windy City took serious issue with the mayor's new discriminatory policy and told her staff to cancel his upcoming interview with Lightfoot when they informed him the mayor would not be lifting her racial conditions.
What's going on?
Mayor Lightfoot's spokeswoman told members of the Chicago media Tuesday that the mayor "is granting 1 on 1 interviews — only to Black or Brown journalists," WMAQ-TV reporter Mary Ann Ahern said.
Another reporter, Paris Schutz of WTTW-TV, said he "was told the same thing."
A third reporter, WTTW's Heather Cherone, confirmed the claims.
Chicago Alderman George Cardenas responded to the reports, saying that the mayor's policy "should be corrected."
What did the Latino reporter say?
Gregory Pratt, a well-known reporter with the Chicago Tribune who also happens to be Latino, revealed that he was none too thrilled with Mayor Lightfoot's recent proclamation.
And he was willing to put his money where his mouth was, revealing on Twitter that he told the mayor's office to cancel his Wednesday interview with Lightfoot if she was determined to keep her policy.
According to Pratt, the mayor's staff said she was not going to budge.
"I am a Latino reporter @chicagotribune whose interview request was granted for today," Pratt tweeted. "However, I asked the mayor's office to lift its condition on others and when they said no, we respectfully canceled.
"Politicians don't get to choose who covers them," he concluded.
HotAir's Ed Morrissey noted that Pratt's move "raised the ante for his colleagues while calling Lightfoot's bluff."
It's yet to be seen if any other reporters will follow Pratt's lead, but, as Morrissey noted, "Anyone now conducting a one-on-one with Lightfoot while this policy remains in place will stand in stark and unpleasant contrast to Pratt's principled stand. Who wants to be a collaborator in an attack on the media, especially one as stupidly racist as Lightfoot's?"A widespread study being organized by the U.K. government has so far reportedly found that hosting large gatherings without masks or social distancing is no riskier to the public than opening restaurants or shopping centers.
"Holding mass events without masks and social distancing can be as safe as going to a restaurant or shopping centre, government trials suggest," The Times reported on Tuesday.
"Preliminary data from the [Events Research Programme] is understood to have found that with screening, improved ventilation and other mitigating factors the risk of virus transmission can be significantly reduced, reducing fears that sports matches and concerts could cause big outbreaks," the report said.
Since early last month, the U.K. government has been running large-scale testing through an initiative called the Events Research Programme, which aimed to "examine the risk of transmission of Covid-19 from attendance at events and explore ways to enable people to attend a range of events safely."
As a part of the initiative, government researchers selected several "pilot events" with a range of criteria, including differing audience capacities and outdoor and indoor venues, to test a number of mitigating factors in order to determine how to reopen large venues safely.
Such events included the Football Association Challenge Cup Semi-Final and Final at Wembley Stadium, the BRIT Awards in London, and World Snooker Championship at Sheffield Crucible Theatre.
Though the research program still has a few weeks to complete its round of trials, the group is reportedly set to forward the early positive results to government ministers in the coming days.
"We are still waiting for the final bits of data but the results so far have been very encouraging," a source reportedly told The Times. "It will help make the case that these large events are not inherently more risky than other parts of the hospitality sector.
"It shows that there are things that you can do to make these settings as safe as other daily activities," the source said. "It is true that they are not going to be 100% safe, but you can lower the risk to a reasonable level."
During the run of testing, event attendees followed established guidelines, such as presenting proof of a recent negative test or vaccination, but were not required to wear a facial covering or remain at least three feet apart.
Attendees were also reportedly "monitored by CCTV and wore devices that showed how many others they came into contact with, whether they shook hands or hugged, and how far apart they stood."The founder of a pro-Israel Facebook page that had over 75 million followers says Facebook shut down the page after "radical Islamic" groups reportedly waged a "cyber terrorism" campaign targeting the page with hate speech.
Mike Evans, the founder of the "Jerusalem Prayer Team" page, told CBN News his Facebook page was the target of a harassment campaign that was orchestrated by radical Islamic organizations who posted fake comments and then reported those comments as spam to Facebook.
"There was an organized attempt by radical Islamic organizations to achieve this objective. They posted over a million comments on our site, and then had the people contact Facebook saying that they never posted to the site," Evans said. "That was a complete scam and fraud. It was a very clever, deceptive plan by Islamic radicals."
Evans, who is currently in Israel leading people around the world in prayer for the country amid renewed violence with Hamas and Palestinian terrorist groups, said his page was flooded with anti-Semitic comments — including photos of and quotes from Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler. He also said the same groups that posted the comments directed people to report them to Facebook, flagging them as spam that violated the platform's terms of service.
Also, some users claimed Facebook made them follow the page without their consent.
On Friday, Facebook informed the Jerusalem Prayer Team that the page was suspended. Evans received a message from Facebook indicating the case was "complete" and that "no further action" will be taken.
"These Pages were deleted by our system due to being not Policy Compliant. Sadly, we can't review appeals at this time due to a shortage in reviewers caused by the Coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. Since you are unable to access the Page, this means that the appealing is no longer an option. There's no further action that we can take for these Pages.
"Please consider this decision final," Facebook reportedly told him.
Evans also says he cannot post content to his personal Facebook page and that multiple attempts to contact Facebook representatives have gone unanswered.
In a statement to the New York Post, a Facebook spokesperson said: "We removed Jerusalem Prayer Team's Facebook Page for violating our rules against spam and inauthentic behavior."
"Facebook got caught with its pants down. Facebook has been accused of being biased towards conservative media sources. This is a prime example of bias on steroids. It's, in my opinion, cyber terrorism based upon racism," Evans told CBN News. "I've contacted Senator friends, such as Lindsey Graham and Ted Cruz, my dear friend, former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Jared Kushner, and dozens of other political leaders to assist me with this fraudulent scheme to damage our good work."The deadly conflict between Israel and Hamas militants will be coming to an end soon after a ceasefire was reportedly reached between the two parties.
The ceasefire was reported Wednesday by Channel 12 News in Israel.
A senior Hamas official appeared to confirm the news during an interview on Lebanon's al-Mayadeen TV according to Reuters.
"I think that the ongoing efforts regarding the ceasefire will succeed," said Hamas political official Moussa Abu Marzouk.
"I expect a ceasefire to be reached within a day or two, and the ceasefire will be on the basis of mutual agreement," he added.
CNN's Manu Raju also reported that Hamas officials told CNN that a ceasefire was "imminent, possibly within 24 hours."
The conflict has been raging for 10 days during which hundreds of rockets have been fired at Israel from militants in the Gaza Strip. While the nation's vaunted Iron Dome defense system was able to intercept most of the rockets, some were able to slip past onto civilian areas. Palestinians and their allies also rioted and attacked Israelis in several cities across the country.
Israeli authorities say 12 deaths have been documented from the conflict, while on the Palestinian side officials say 228 have perished.
Critics of Israel in the U.S. were angered greatly when President Joe Biden said in a statement that Israel had a right to defend itself against such rocket attacks. Among those was the only Palestinian-American in Congress, Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), who confronted Biden as he arrived in Michigan to tour a Ford plant.
Earlier on Wednesday the White House said in a readout between Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that the president had made it clear he expected "significant de-escalation today on the path to a ceasefire."
Netanyahu appeared to push back on that demand in a public statement assuring Israeli citizens that he was "determined to continue this operation until its aim is met."
Here's more about the Israel-Palestinian conflict:
THIS is why America's far-left 'GLORIFIES' Palestinians in the Israel conflict www.youtube.com
[Editor's Note: This story has been updated with additional information.]President Joe Biden was up to his old tricks during his commencement address for U.S. Coast Guard graduates Wednesday, letting loose with a short-fused pointed put-down when they didn't applaud him on cue.
"I can only assume that you will enjoy educating your family about how the Coast Guard is, quote, the hard nucleus around the Navy formed in times of war," Biden said during the ceremony in New London, Connecticut, which was his first commencement address as president.
But when Biden's words elicited nothing but silence, he broke through the lull with one of his famous unscripted verbal punches.
"You're a really dull class," Biden remarked with some exasperation. "I mean, come on, man! Is the sun gettin' to ya? I would think you'd have an opportunity when I say that about the Navy to clap."
With that, some laughter and applause was audible. Hey, what the commander-in-chief wants, the commander-in-chief gets, one supposes:
The "hard nucleus" quote, which the Daily Wire said Biden "botched," comes from a speech former Vice President Dick Cheney gave during the U.S. Coast Guard Academy's commencement in 2008.
More from the DW:
At another point in the speech, Biden also quoted communist Chinese dictator Mao Zedong to praise the large number of female graduates in the class and the increasing number of women in leading military positions. "There's a saying we use in a different context, it's a Chinese saying, it says, 'Women hold up half the world.' It's an absolutely stupid position not to make sure they represent at least half of what we do."
Anything else?
For those who've been watching Biden over the years, it comes as no surprise that beneath the sort-of-joking tone he took with the Coast Guard grads for not applauding him is a real temper just waiting to show itself at any moment.
A few days ago the New York Times published a story based on interviews with over two dozen current and former Biden associates that said the president "will often snap" at staffers and issue "outburst[s] of frustration often laced with profanity."
But Biden hasn't always buttoned his lip in that respect in public settings.
In his first debate last fall with then-President Donald Trump, Biden referred to Trump as "buddy," said he "doesn't know what he's talking about," challenged the president to "keep yappin'" — and at one point asked Fox News moderator Chris Wallace and the audience, "Folks, do you have any idea what this clown's doing?"
And earlier in 2020, Biden treated the American people to a showdown with an auto-plant worker in Michigan, telling the voter, "you're full of s**t."
In fact, Biden ended up pointing his finger right in the worker's face, which led the man to tell Biden, "This is not OK, all right?"
Then Biden really lost it: "Don't tell me that, pal, or I'm going to go outside with you."
"You're working for me, man!" the worker angrily replied.
"I'm not working for you," Biden growled back. "Don't be such a horse's ass."
Here's the clip. (Content warning: profanity)Incredible video captured the moment a hero police officer singlehandedly lifted an overturned car off a mother who was trapped inside.
What are the details?
According to a Wednesday report from ABC News, a woman and her child were traveling in a sedan when they crashed May 7 in Gloucester County, Virginia.
Deputy Jon Holt, who was the first responder on the scene of the accident, found that the woman had become trapped underneath her vehicle. The woman's child is heard on the video crying and pleading for the officer to help.
"She can't breathe! She can't breathe!" the child cried. "Please help!"
Holt can then be heard responding, "[S]he is trapped under the vehicle — I can't get it off."
At that point, the screen goes dark, and according to the outlet, the officer can be heard "straining and groaning loudly as he attempts to singlehandedly lift the car off of the woman."
"The driver was laying underneath the vehicle with her head pinned by the sunroof. Seeing the trauma her child was witnessing, Deputy J. Holt went into overdrive," a statement from the Gloucester County Sheriff's Office said.
"Through sheer will and determination due to fearing the female may succumb to her circumstance in front of her panic-stricken child, Deputy J. Holt took quick action and was able to physically lift the vehicle up enough for the driver to maneuver her head out to safety," the statement added.
Authorities released a portion of Holt's body camera footage on May 18, which showed the officer arriving on the scene before running to help the woman.
The sheriff's office also shared the video on Facebook with the following caption:
The Gloucester Sheriff's Office would like to again recognize Deputy J. Holt on another unbelievable incident that occurred on May 7, 2021. As many know, Deputy J. Holt recently accepted both the local and regional Top Cop Awards from the Greater Hampton Roads Regional Crime Line on February 2, 2021 for his commitment to public safety after saving the lives of 2 individuals from a burning house on the afternoon of March 24, 2020. He wasn't done! On May 7th, Deputy J. Holt responded to an overturned vehicle with an entrapment. The driver was laying underneath the vehicle with her head pinned by the sunroof. Seeing the trauma her child was witnessing, Deputy J. Holt went into overdrive. Through sheer will and determination due to fearing the female may succumb to her circumstance in front of her panic-stricken child, Deputy J. Holt took quick action and was able to physically lift the vehicle up enough for the driver to maneuver her head out to safety. The GCSO would like to share a portion of Dep. J. Holt's body camera video as it captured this tremendous act.
What else?
The outlet pointed out just three months ago, Holt received the "Top Cop Award" for the region.
“Deputy J. Holt recently accepted both the local and regional Top Cop Awards from the Greater Hampton Roads Regional Crime Line on February 2, 2021 for his commitment to public safety after saving the lives of 2 individuals from a burning house on the afternoon of March 24, 2020," the Gloucester County Sheriff's Office told the Gloucester-Mathews Gazette-Journal in February.For the last week and a half, Hamas terrorists have been indiscriminately launching rockets into Israel from Gaza. The Israel Defense Forces have been responding with targeted attacks on Hamas assets and personnel — who often hide among civilians and the media.
One of the IDF's top targets has been Hamas' underground tunnel system often referred to as the "Metro." The terrorist organization uses the Metro for storing weapons, conducting military operations, surreptitiously moving about Gaza, and carrying out training exercises.
Just last week, the IDF pulled off what became a headline-grabbing attack on a section of the Metro system. The agency duped Hamas into believing IDF troops were initiating a ground attack into Gaza, baiting the terrorists to head to the tunnels. Once the Hamas members were underground, Israel launched a massive air campaign, burying untold numbers of terrorists in their own infrastructure.
The IDF posted a video Wednesday explaining just how effective attacks have been on the Hamas Metro — as well as how extensive the terrorists' tunnel system has been, the New York Post said.
According the video, the Israeli military has taken out 62 miles (100 kilometers) of Metro tunnels so far.
"The Hamas terror organization invested the majority of its finances and efforts over the last decade in digging out a complex tunnel system across the Gaza Strip," the video said, adding that the "extensive project" was "in the configuration of a 'metro' network — tunnels connected to each other at intersections and bypasses."
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
The Metro, the IDF said, began just as "individual shafts" used as hiding places for Hamas operatives after launching rockets.
"The network of tunnels grew and branched off until it became a 'metro' of an internal tunnel system throughout the Gaza Strip," the military continued. "The system enabled military training, mobility, the capacity to carry out and manage military operations without exposing themselves, storage for weaponry, and more."
The IDF then showed locations of Metro access points and illustrated stages of airstrikes on the system.
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
Image source: Israel Defense Forces video screenshot
IDF spokeswoman Capt. Libby Weiss told the Post that the Metro is "one of Hamas' most strategic projects, created over the course of years and dug under the people of Gaza near homes, schools and mosques."
"As a result of IDF activity, more than 62 miles of this network have been destroyed — that's the equivalent of almost a quarter of the NYC subway system," Weiss said. "Rather than investing in the economic development of the Gaza Strip, Hamas sunk tens of millions of dollars in this system."
IDF spokesman Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus told the Post that because the tunnels run under civilian areas, the military's airstrikes have been targeting roads above the tunnels in order to "minimize damage to buildings."An Idaho teacher is speaking out for the first time on how she disarmed a sixth-grade girl during a school shooting that took place earlier in May, ABC News reported.
The teacher, Krista Gneiting, said that she grabbed the child and enveloped her in a hug when she realized what was happening.
What are the details?
Gneiting spoke in an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America" about the May 6 shooting in which a sixth-grade girl reportedly opened fire in a school hallway, striking a janitor and two students.
All three victims sustained wounds that were not life-threatening.
Gneiting said that she immediately went into protective mode and told students in her class to exit the building as quickly as possible.
"So I just told my students, 'We are going to leave, we're going to run to the high school, you're going to run hard, you're not going to look back, and now is the time to get up and go,'" she recalled telling her students.
Gneiting said she went out into the hallway and saw a young girl.
"It was a little girl, and my brain couldn't quite grasp that," Gneiting recalled. "I just knew when I saw that gun, I had to get the gun."
Gneiting said she approached the girl and quietly asked, "Are you the shooter?"
"I just walked up to her and I put my hand over her hand, I just slowly pulled the gun out of her hand and she allowed me to," the math teacher added. "She didn't give it to me, but she didn't fight. And then after I got the gun, I just pulled her into a hug because I thought, 'This little girl has a mom somewhere that doesn't realize she's having a breakdown and she's hurting people.'"
Gneiting was able to call 911 while embracing the child.
"After a while, the girl started talking to me and I could tell she was very unhappy," Gneiting recalled. She said that the girl eventually calmed down. "I just kept hugging her and loving her and trying to let her know that we're going to get through this together."
When authorities arrived on the scene, they were able to take the girl into custody without incident.
"[The arresting officer] was very gentle and very kind, and he just went ahead and took her and put her in the police car," Gneiting added.
The young girl is still in custody
In a statement, the Jefferson County Prosecuting Attorney's Office told the outlet that the unnamed girl is "still in custody and has been charged."
The outlet noted that Jefferson County Prosecuting Attorney Mark Taylor previously told reporters that the girl could face three counts of attempted murder.
Gneiting said she hopes the child can find forgiveness in herself and in others for what happened.
"She is just barely starting in life and she just needs some help. Everybody makes mistakes," Gneiting added. "I think we need to make sure we get her help and get her back into where she loves herself so that she can function in society."Entertainer Demi Lovato came out as "non-binary" on social media early Wednesday morning.
What are the details?
Lovato shared the news in a video shared to Twitter, and captioned it, "Every day we wake up, we are given another opportunity & chance to be who we want & wish to be. I've spent the majority of my life growing in front of all of you ... you've seen the good, the bad, & everything in between."
"Not only has my life been a journey for myself, I was also living for those on the other side of the cameras," Lovato admitted.
Lovato, a former Disney movie star and musician, implored fans and supporters to use the terms "they" or "them" when discussing or referring to the entertainer.
Lovato added, "Today is a day I'm so happy to share more of my life with you all — I am proud to let you know that I identify as non-binary & will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward."
The decision and subsequent announcement, Lovato explained, came after a lot of "healing and self-reflective work."
Lovato wrote, "This has come after a lot of healing & self-reflective work. I'm still learning & coming into myself, & I don't claim to be an expert or a spokesperson. Sharing this with you now opened another level of vulnerability for me."
Lovato concluded the thread, "I'm doing this for those out there that haven't been able to share who they truly are with their loved ones. Please keep living in your truths & know I am sending so much love your way xox."
What else?
Lovato announced in March her pansexual orientation and an attraction to "anything, really."
In a recent interview with podcast host Joe Rogan, the entertainer said, "I'm part of the [LGBTQ+] alphabet mafia and proud."
Lovato broke up with fiancée Max Ehrich in 2019 after admitting to being "too queer" to settle down with a man.
"I felt a lot of shame because growing up in Texas as a Christian, that's very frowned upon," Lovato recalled. "Any attraction that I ever had toward a female at a young age, I shut it down before I even let myself process what I was feeling."
The former Disney star added, "Regardless if drama is happening or not, I am too gay to marry a man right now. I don't know if that will change in 10 years and I don't know if that'll never change, but I love accepting myself."
"I've always known I was hella queer, but I have fully embraced it," Lovato added.A federal judge in Texas has issued a temporary restraining order against the Biden administration's Small Business Administration after a lawsuit accused the government of racial discrimination in the distribution of COVID-19 relief funds.
America First Legal, a legal group founded by ex-senior Trump adviser Stephen Miller, filed a lawsuit on behalf of a Texas restaurant owner who lost revenue due to the coronavirus pandemic and claims the SBA's Restaurant Revitalization Fund unconstitutionally discriminates against white males by prioritizing women and minorities to receive $28.6 billion in restaurant relief funds as part of the American Rescue Plan.
The lawsuit claims Biden's coronavirus relief plan orders the SBA "to discriminate among restaurants according to the race and sex of the owner" by instructing the administration to "'prioritize awarding grants' to businesses owned by women and racial minorities'" during the first 21 days of the program.
"These race and sex preferences are patently unconstitutional, and the Court should promptly enjoin their enforcement. Doing so will promote equal rights under the law for all American citizens and promote efforts to stop racial discrimination," the lawsuit claims.
SBA lawyers argued in legal filings that the Restaurant Relief Fund had a "compelling government interest" in "remedying the effects of past and present discrimination" by "supporting small businesses owned by socially and economically disadvantaged small business owners ... who have borne an outsized burden of economic harms of [the] COVID-19 pandemic."
But U.S. District Court Judge Reed O'Connor of the Northern District of Texas agreed with AFL's argument in his opinion enjoining Biden's SBA to process the white restaurant owner's application for relief and stop prioritizing some applicants over others based on race or sex.
"Plaintiffs are likely to succeed on the merits of their claim that Defendants' [the Biden Administration's] use of race-based and sex-based preferences in the administration of the RRF violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution," O'Connor wrote.
AFL President Miller issued a statement praising O'Connor's ruling.
"This ruling is the first, but crucial, step towards ending government-sponsored racial discrimination. We are proud to have obtained this order for our courageous client at this initial stage, but we have a long way to go. America First Legal is on the cutting-edge of the fight for civil rights in America — and we will never back down," he said.
TheBlaze contacted the Small Business Administration for comment but did not receive a response before publication.
Last month, AFL filed a similar lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Agriculture also alleging racial discrimination in the administration of an American Rescue Plan program to provide coronavirus relief benefits to "socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers," which the department interpreted to include African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, Alaskan natives, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islanders, but excluded white farmers and ranchers.
Yet another lawsuit filed by the Wisconsin Institute for Law & Liberty on behalf of Antonio Vitolo, the owner of Jake's Bar and Grill in Harriman, Tennessee, claims that SBA unconstitutionally discriminated against Vitolo, a white male, after he applied for coronavirus relief funds on May 3 but was told the administration would "only process and fund priority group applications" for the first 21 days of the Restaurant Revitalization Fund program.
The Biden administration announced May 10 that it approved applications from more than 16,000 women, veterans, and socially and economically disadvantaged business owners in the first round of economic relief from the Restaurant Revitalization Fund. More than $2 billion of relief has been awarded since the program began.A transgender golfer who competed in college on a men's team recently won a women's mini-tour event and now hopes to compete in the Ladies Professional Golf Association.
Hailey Davidson, who underwent sex reassignment surgery in January, shot -2 over two rounds last week in the National Women's Golf Association match at Providence Golf Club in Orlando, Florida. She edged LPGA player Perrine Delacour by one stroke to win the event.
That very same day the United States Golf Association revealed that Davidson met its gender policy eligibility criteria and would be able to compete in the organization's events, GolfWeek reported.
According to the news outlet, the 28-year-old golfer hopes to hear similar news from the LPGA soon.
"I'm not just going to be stuck on mini-tours," said Davidson, who reportedly last competed as a male in 2015 at a U.S. Open qualifying tournament in Jupiter, Florida.
With the win last week, Davidson is believed to have become the first transgender person to win a professional golf tournament in the U.S.
In a statement to GolfWeek, the LPGA's chief tour operations officer, Heather Daly-Donofrio, said, "We are currently reviewing Hailey's application to participate in LPGA Tour events under the LPGA's gender policy. The policy is designed to be a private and confidential process between the LPGA and the athlete."
Davidson, who currently works in social media for NBC's Peacock division under the Golf Channel umbrella, reportedly started taking hormone treatments in preparation for a sex change in 2015. Before that, Davidson played on the men's golf team at Christopher Newport University.
GolfWeek reported that since beginning hormone treatment, Davidson's swing has lost 9 mph, resulting in drives from the tee that are now 30 yards shorter. Davidson has also reportedly lost 90 pounds over the last year and has avoided weight training of any kind to trim muscle mass.
"Any advantage that existed is fully gone," the athlete insisted.
In 2010, after a transgender person filed a lawsuit against the tour, the LPGA eliminated its requirement that players be "female at birth." Then earlier this year, the organization removed a rule that specified that transgender golfers had to wait two years after sex reassignment surgeries to compete.
The changes, which alongside significant cultural pressure, could help Davidson became the first biological male to ever make it into the nation's top women's professional golf tour.The reported number of children hospitalized with COVID-19 in California was "grossly inflated," potentially leading policymakers and parents to believe kids were at higher risk from the virus than they actually are, according to two new studies.
"Hospital Pediatrics," a journal of medicine for pediatric care, published two research papers Wednesday that found child hospitalizations for COVID-19 were over-counted by at least 40% in the state, and researchers believe it's likely national numbers were similarly inflated. New York magazine reported commentary from Dr. Monica Gandhi, an infectious disease specialist at the University of California, San Francisco, and her colleague Amy Beck, an associate professor of pediatrics, that explained the studies' findings.
"Taken together, these studies underscore the importance of clearly distinguishing between children hospitalized with SARS-CoV-2 found on universal testing versus those hospitalized for COVID-19 disease," they wrote. The reported hospitalization rates "greatly overestimate the true burden of COVID-19 disease in children." In an interview, Gandhi told New York magazine "there is no reason to think these findings would be exclusive to California. This sort of retrospective chart review will likely reveal the same findings across the country."
New York magazine summarized the key findings from the two studies:
In one study, conducted at a children's hospital in Northern California, among the 117 pediatric SARS-CoV2-positive patients hospitalized between May 10, 2020, and February 10, 2021, the authors concluded that 53 of them (or 45 percent) "were unlikely to be caused by SARS-CoV-2." The reasons for hospital admission for these "unlikely" patients included surgeries, cancer treatment, a psychiatric episode, urologic issues, and various infections such as cellulitis, among other diagnoses. The study also found that 46 (or 39.3 percent) of patients coded as SARS-CoV2 positive were asymptomatic. In other words, despite patients' testing positive for the virus as part of the hospital's universal screening, COVID-19 symptoms were absent, therefore it was not the reason for the hospitalization. Any instance where the link between a positive SARS-CoV2 test and cause of admission was uncertain the authors erred toward giving a "likely" categorization.
In the second study, at the fifth-largest children's hospital in the country, out of 146 records listing patients as positive for SARS-CoV-2 from May 1, 2020, to September 30, 2020, the authors classified 58 (40 percent) as having "incidental" diagnosis, meaning there was no documentation of COVID-19 symptoms prior to hospitalization. Like the first study, and as has been typical around the nation, this hospital implemented universal testing of inpatients for SARS-CoV-2. An example of incidentally SARS-CoV-2-positive patients are those who came to the hospital because of fractures. Patients who may have had COVID-19 symptoms but who had a clearly documented alternative reason for them, such as a child with abdominal pain and fever found to be related to an abdominal abscess, were also deemed to have incidental diagnosis. The study categorized 68 patients, or 47 percent, as "potentially symptomatic," which was defined as when "COVID-19 was not the primary reason for admission for these patients, and COVID-19 alone did not directly require hospitalization without the concomitant condition." Examples of these patients were those with acute appendicitis, since that condition includes gastrointestinal symptoms that may also present in COVID-19.
There are two important implications of these findings. The first is that policies that disproportionally affect children, like school closures or the cancellation of youth sports or summer camps, were implemented after reports greatly overstated the risk of children being hospitalized from COVID-19.
"Children have suffered tremendously due to policies that have kept schools and recreational facilities closed to them, and the burden has been greatest on children who are low-income and English-language learners," the researchers noted in their commentary. New York magazine pointed out "the hospitalization numbers for children were already extremely low relative to adults — at the pandemic's peak this winter, it was roughly ten times lower than for 18-to-49-year-olds and 77 times lower than those age 65 and up." If 40% of those hospitalizations were reported inaccurately, the actual rates are "vanishingly small," and those policies implemented to protect children may have done far more harm than good.
The second implication relates to the Food and Drug Administration's "emergency use authorization" for COVID-19 vaccines for children. If the studies' findings show that COVID-19 "poses a dramatically lower incidence of pediatric hospitalizations than the data have shown thus far," then the need for an emergency authorization of vaccines for kids to protect them from going to the hospital is perhaps less than previously thought.
Stefan Baral, an infectious diseases epidemiologist and physician at Johns Hopkins, told New York magazine the studies' findings "reinforce the importance of going through a meaningful process to understand the risks to children" from the vaccines.
The FDA on Monday approved Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine for children ages 12-15 under its emergency use authorization, finding that the vaccine is safe and effective for individuals 12 and older.A pair of Jewish men dining outside a Los Angeles restaurant Tuesday night were allegedly attacked by members of a pro-Palestinian caravan driving through the area, KTLA-TV reported.
What are the details?
The incident took place just before 10 p.m. outside Sushi Fumi on North La Cienega Boulevard in the Beverly Grove neighborhood, the station said — and portions of the attack were captured on cellphone video.
A witness told KTLA she was sitting with a group of friends when the caravan displaying Palestinian flags drove by and began shouting at diners.
Twitter video screenshot via @SussexFriendsofIsrael
In one exchange caught on video, one of the apparent pro-Palestinians yelled at diners, "Israel kills children and women every day!" After which one of the diners yelled back, "F*** you!" Soon what sounds like breaking glass is heard, and the clip ends.
Content warning: Language:
The witness added to the station that several men from the caravan jumped out of their vehicles and asked male diners if any of them were "Jews" — and when two said they were, fighting broke out.
The mob of apparent pro-Palestinians easily outnumbered the diners, and at least two attackers were very large. One of the victims appeared to pick up a metal stand and tried to swing it at the mob, but several attackers converged on him and began punching him.
Twitter video screenshot via @Eve_Barlow
Twitter video screenshot via @Eve_Barlow
One of the diners — a photographer who is not Jewish — told KCBS-TV bottles were thrown at him and the group he was meeting with to plan a wedding.
The man said he was physically attacked when he tried to defend the group, the station said, adding that the attackers used anti-Semitic slurs and that he went to a hospital after being pepper sprayed.
KTLA said restaurant staff rushed patrons inside, locked the doors, and called police.
The suspects — who fled south on La Cienega in a vehicle described as possibly a black Jeep — were described as white men wearing all black, KCBS said.
The witness told KTLA the incident lasted about 15 minutes, and no one was taken into custody.
Authorities are investigating whether the incident was a hate crime, KCBS reported.
'Absolutely outrageous'
Video of the incident was sent to L.A. City Councilman Paul Koretz, who is Jewish, KCBS noted.
"It's absolutely outrageous," Koretz told the station. "We're not going to allow this in the city of Los Angeles."
The councilman came to the scene and said he would push for an investigation of the attack, KCBS reported.
"We're not going to bring the conflict from the Middle East here and allow people to be attacked on our streets because of what they look like and [how] they appear ethnically," Koretz noted to the station.
Pro-Palestinian activists have taken to the streets in West Los Angeles amid fighting between Israel and Hamas in Gaza, KCBS said.
This story has been updated.Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer is, at 82 years old, the oldest serving justice on the Supreme Court. His age, however, and the fact that a Democrat is president, is not persuading him to retire.
In fact, pressure from Democrats eager for President Joe Biden to fill Breyer's spot with another ideologically liberal justice is doing exactly the opposite.
What are the details?
When Biden ascended to the presidency, Democrats immediately began calling on Breyer to retire to give Biden his first opportunity to etch a judicial legacy. After all, his predecessor, former President Donald Trump, appointed three Supreme Court justices, and had the opportunity to generationally shape federal district and appeals courts.
NPR: "Liberals Admire Justice Breyer. Now They Want Him To Retire"
Washington Post: "Justice Breyer should learn from Justice Ginsburg's mistake — and retire now"
CNN: "Democratic congressman calls on Justice Stephen Breyer to retire"
MSNBC: "Justice Stephen Breyer should retire from the Supreme Court"
Forbes: "Progressives Demand 'Breyer Retire' So Biden Can Appoint Supreme Court Justice"
But, according to the New York Times, Breyer does not plan to acquiesce to pressure from progressives, retiring simply because his successor could be appointed by a Democratic White House.
The pressure, according to Artemus Ward, a political scientist at Northern Illinois University, is likely having the opposite intended effect on Breyer, who Ward said wants to preserve the institutional integrity of the Supreme Court.
"Breyer is a justice who is with the chief justice in trying to protect the institution," Ward told the Times. "Justices care about the court, and the court is arguably very vulnerable right now.
"This is a guy who I believe is not going to retire," Ward predicted.
What has Breyer said?
While delivering a lecture at Harvard Law School last month, Breyer seemingly spoke out against appearances of judicial partisanship.
"My experience of more than 30 years as a judge has shown me that once men and women take the judicial oath, they take the oath to heart," Breyer said. "They are loyal to the rule of law, not to the political party that helped to secure their appointment."
Indeed, the senior justice has a forthcoming book that repudiates the movement to politicize the Supreme Court, and the push from Democrats to expand and pack the court with ideologically liberal justices.
The book — titled, "The Authority of the Court and the Peril of Politics" — is described by its publisher as, "A sitting justice reflects upon the authority of the Supreme Court—how that authority was gained and how measures to restructure the Court could undermine both the Court and the constitutional system of checks and balances that depends on it."
"Justice Stephen Breyer sounds a cautionary note. Mindful of the Court's history, he suggests that the judiciary's hard-won authority would be marred by reforms premised on the assumption of ideological bias," the description adds. "Breyer warns that public trust would be eroded by political intervention, dashing the authority of the Court. Without the public's trust, the Court would no longer be able to act as a check on the other branches of government and a guarantor of the rule of law, threatening the foundations of our constitutional system."Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) said he's glad Dr. Anthony Fauci has "chosen to accept vaccine science" after Fauci, President Joe Biden's top health adviser, admitted Tuesday that Americans vaccinated against COIVID-19 do not need to wear masks.
Previously, Paul and Fauci clashed over mask-wearing for vaccinated individuals, with Fauci insisting that even people who were immunized against COVID-19 needed to continue wearing masks, while Paul argued mask-wearing was just "theater" if a person had been vaccinated or has recovered from infection.
After the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated its mask guidance last week, Fauci changed his tune, telling ABC News' George Stephanopoulos that he's now comfortable being seen in public without a mask. "Before the CDC made the recommendation change, I didn't want to look like I was giving mixed signals," Fauci said.
"I'm just glad that Dr. Fauci has now chosen to accept vaccine science — basic vaccine science says you can't get it after you've been vaccinated; that's why we get vaccinated," Paul told NewsmaxTV host Sean Spicer Wednesday after being shown a clip of Fauci's flip-flop.
He added that "basic vaccine science" shows that individuals who are vaccinated against a disease can neither become infected nor transmit the disease because they are immune to it.
"And yet [Fauci] was unwilling to accept it, and he was performing theater, wearing masks because he didn't want people to see him without a mask," Paul continued. "It wasn't that masks worked or that he needed it. You heard the way he phrased it. He didn't want someone to see him without the mask. So, really, it was theater."
The senator from Kentucky also criticized health experts and people in media who say they will continue to wear masks even though they've been vaccinated for making others hesitant to get vaccinated.
"If we send them a signal that they're just making up this science and they're treating us like imbeciles, and they're doing things for show, it actually discourages some of the people who are hesitant to get vaccinated," Paul said.
Paul doesn't think vaccinations should be mandatory, but he said those at high risk of suffering complications from contracting COVID-19, those who are over 40 years old and overweight, should strongly consider getting the vaccine.
"I wouldn't be out there telling 12-year-olds we're not going to let you go to summer camp or we're not going to let you go to school or get on a plane unless you're vaccinated," Paul said.
"We need to really not treat this as a one size fits all. This really should be individualized, and that's the way health care should be in a free society."Fox News host Greg Gutfeld suggested Monday that Democratic politicians who don't want to remove illegal immigrant gang members from the country should enroll in a program to adopt them into their own homes instead.
Gutfeld pitched the mock charity, which he called, "Adopt-a-Gang-Banger," in response to a call from Democratic politicians, including progressive Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (N.Y.), to end the process of prioritizing the deportation of gang members.
In a letter sent to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director Tae Johnson, Ocasio-Cortez along with 34 of her Democratic colleagues denounced immigration enforcement practices that rely on a "discriminatory criminal legal system."
Citing the nation's ongoing "racial reckoning," the lawmakers called for an end to the inhuman and unjust "carceral approach" to immigration — which effectively results in the imprisonment or deportation of criminal illegal aliens.
Failing to suggest any concrete alternative solution to the problem, the lawmakers merely urged the Biden administration to "pursue humane and just immigration policies" and "welcome those seeking humanitarian relief."
Gutfeld, on the other hand, had a couple substantive ideas to offer.
"So I have two solutions," he said. "If you are a Democrat and feel strongly about not deporting gang members, I have an Adopt-a-Gang-Banger charity. For just 350 bucks a month you can adopt a gang banger, OK? Each week you are going to get a photo and a handwritten letter from the gang banger telling you who he has assaulted and raped and murdered, and in three months he could be yours to live at your house."
Moving on to his second idea, which he called the "Idiot Thug Exchange Program," Gutfeld proposed allowing criminal gang members to stay in the country if two leftist academics or politicos could be deported in their place.
"It works like this," he said. "We will keep one of your thugs as long as they are under 25, because there is a possibility of rehabilitation, [and] in return you get two far-left media academics who are over 25 because they aren't — there is no ability to rehab them because the ideas are so poisoned in their brain."
"I will take a gang banger over a gender studies professor in a heartbeat," he concluded.With the momentum on our side, now is not the time to breathe a sigh of relief. It's the time to go on offense against COVID fascism. Yes, we appear to be healing from the ailment of COVID fascism, but now is the time to inoculate ourselves against future usurpations while we still have the chance.
Unlike with the virus, there is no natural immunity against government tyranny under the guise of public health. This is the essence of what Ronald Reagan meant when he warned, "Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction." We can always lose our freedom, and once it is given up, we seldom reclaim it. Part of the reason why is because every time we beat back an assault on our freedoms, we just move on to the next issue and fail to vaccinate ourselves against future usurpations. This time must be different. It's time for every state and county to pass a resolution prohibiting any of these actions from ever being taken again. Preferably, they should be codified into state constitutions.
It's not like the various federal and state agencies have admitted that lockdowns and masking are ineffective and harmful. They are just finally conceding that the measures are no longer necessary this round. Thus, we might have temporarily gotten our breathing back, but we did not reclaim our freedom, because it is always subject to infringement at the flick of the pen of a governor or mayor. In fact, Fauci has already hinted at masking becoming the new baseline for the flu season, and we all know that at the first sign of another virus (or a different emergency), these same actors will pull out this yet-to-be-repudiated playbook. Which is why we must repudiate it, burn the blueprint, and break the mold, so that it can never be used again.
The following is my proposal for a "never again" resolution that will permanently reclaim these lost rights from the clutches of public health tyrants.
Declaration of American rights and principles for an American sanctuary
Whereas what distinguishes this country from other supposed democracies is that our rights come from God, not from government, those rights are fully sustained in times of war as well as peace, times of sickness as well as wellness, times of scarcity as well as prosperity.
Whereas Justice Robert Jackson observed the same thing about the provisions of the federal Constitution and that the Founders deliberately omitted emergency exceptions to fundamental rights because they "knew the pressures they engender for authoritative action, knew, too, how they afford a ready pretext for usurpation."
Whereas the state power to quarantine is only on the sick, not on the healthy, and that the Supreme Court has ruled that no effort to quarantine may be done in an "arbitrary, unreasonable manner, or might go so far beyond what was reasonably required for the safety of the public."
Whereas all the measures taken to stop the spread of a recent virus have proven ineffective in their stated goal yet devastating in their collateral damage to society as a whole.
Whereas federal law prohibits anyone from using "law, statute, ordinance, regulation, or custom" to deprive any person of "any rights, privileges, or immunities secured or protected by the Constitution" (U.S. Code Title 18, Sec 242).
Whereas shutting down businesses without offering full and complete compensation violates the Fifth Amendment's Takings Clause.
Whereas Sam Adams said the American Revolution was a contest over "not only whether we ourselves shall be free, but whether there shall be left to mankind an asylum on earth, for civil and religious liberty."
Whereas even during the Articles of Confederation government, states lacked the authority to block citizens from traveling freely across state lines.
Whereas the Supreme Court has held, "No right is held more sacred, or is more carefully guarded by the common law, than the right of every individual to the possession and control of his own person, free from all restraint or interference of others, unless by clear and unquestionable authority of law" (Union Pacific Railway Co. v. Botsford (1891)). And that the right of a human being to breathe freely through his or her nose and mouth is the clearest manifestation of that right to bodily integrity:
Be it Resolved, that this legislative body recognizes the state/county of _____to be an American sanctuary, an asylum on earth for the following liberties during any declared public health emergency:
The right of every citizen to move freely without being restrained or forcibly masked in violation of his bodily integrity.
The right of every citizen to responsibly open their businesses without government deciding which ones are essential.
The right of every citizen to worship freely during a declared emergency.
The right of every American child to attend school without physical and psychological abuse.
The right of every citizen to be shielded from government monitoring of his privacy.
The right of citizens to have their state governments shield them from any federal usurpations of inalienable rights.
The right of every citizen of this republic to travel freely across state lines.
Therefore, as the duly elected legislative body of this state, we commit to the principle that during a declared emergency – for health or other reasons – individuals absolutely retain the right to be free and independent and maintain their inalienable and fundamental right of self-determination to make their own health and personal safety decisions including, but not limited to, the right to refuse any of the following health-related countermeasures:
The wearing of masks or other medical devices.
Vaccination.
Testing or any physical examination.
Participation in contact tracing.
The involuntary sharing of personal data or medical information.
Forced quarantine of any individual who has not been infected with an actual disease that has been proven deadly and has not already proliferated through large portions of the population. The case fatality rate must exceed 1.5% in order to trigger any forced isolation of individuals.
Even in the case of a legitimate quarantine, it shall be implemented in the least restrictive means possible to prevent the spread of the toxic agent or disease; shall include reasonable notice and due process; shall protect the right of the individual to remain in his or her home and live with family members, friends, and significant others at all times. An individual's quarantine or isolation shall not remove or alter the individual's legal or medical custody of another individual. A minor child shall not be forcibly removed from his or her parent or legal guardian or home in order to enforce an individual's quarantine or isolation.
In addition to respecting individual rights to bodily integrity and personal autonomy, during any declared emergency by the governor or any public health order issued by a government entity, a government entity shall not infringe upon the rights of business owners. No government official may revoke a business license, occupational or professional license, or liquor license because such business remains open. No government entity may fine, sanction, or seize funds or assets of a business because such business remains open. No government entity may force a business to close, to reduce its hours, to alter its manner of business operations, or to otherwise restrict such business in its manner of operation, including with respect to access by employees, customers, suppliers, consultants, or contractors.
Any violation of personal or business rights during a declared emergency will result in the immediate termination of the declared emergency or public health order and create an immediate cause of action against said government officials by any citizen. Any violator is guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction must be punished by a fine not to exceed $10,000,
or by imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
Further, any executive order issued by an executive agency, department, or head of agency or department is to be treated as advisory for private citizens. Only with a two-thirds vote from the governing legislative body can public health orders affect the conduct of private citizens and must still be in accordance with the aforementioned limitations. An exception to those limitations can only become effective following a public hearing on the matter and a three-fourths vote to suspend the standing rules of declared public health emergencies. Such suspensions cannot last for more than 30 days.BlazeTV host Dave Rubin joined Glenn Beck in-studio to discuss the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's recent recommendation that Americans who have received the COVID-19 vaccine no longer need to wear masks or social distance.
Dave and Glenn agreed this new development should not erase how the Left exploited masks make half the American population feel less than human. In fact, Dave said he believes they used masks to inflict "a psychological condition on us to make us afraid of each other, and turn on each other."
"So many people on the liberal side see the mask as a sign that you're part of 'the party,' and when you're not wearing a mask, you're a problem," Glenn observed. "They've been shaming us, they've been side-eyeing us, speaking out and calling us names. How do they remove that mask when it has become part of the identity of the party?"
"Yes, it is a process of 'othering people,' saying the worst things about people," Dave said. "And now it's not just that our political views are odious and should be silenced and kicked off Big Tech and everything else, it's that we are literally killing people by not wearing masks, by not bowing to these people. And who are actually the ones that are instigating the hate? It's them.
"We respect individual rights. We respect freedom and liberty," Dave added later. "And what they respect is power and control."
Watch the video clip below to catch more of the conversation:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.The political activist organization Black Lives Matter declared this week that it supports "Palestinian liberation," a head-nod to anti-Israeli sentiment as the war between Israel and Hamas continues.
The declaration was warmly received by an anti-Israel movement that seeks to economically destroy Israel.
What did the group say?
Black Lives Matter said it is standing in solidarity with "Palestinian liberation" because it opposes "settler colonialism."
"Black Lives Matter stands in solidarity with Palestinians. We are a movement committed to ending settler colonialism in all forms and will continue to advocate for Palestinian liberation. ( always have. And always will be )," the group tweeted.
In response, the movement that seeks to destroy Israel — Boycott, Divestments, and Sanctions, a movement often described as anti-Semitic — thanked Black Lives Matter for supporting their mission.
"Thank you for your solidarity. From Ferguson to Palestine, our struggles against racism, white supremacy and for a just world are united!" the group tweeted.
What is going on?
Far-left progressives have been outspoken over the last week in their support for Palestine as tensions flare between Israel and Hamas terrorists in Gaza.
The fighting started May 10 when Hamas terrorists began attacking Israel with missiles following violent clashes between Muslims and Israelis at the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem.
Israel has responded with a fierce military campaign, destroying key Hamas targets in Hamas-controlled Gaza. Casualties are mounting on both sides.
The war has reignited rhetoric from Pro-Palestine advocates, like Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) for example, who accuse Israel of operating "apartheid states" like South Africa did for much of the 20th century.
Advocates of "Palestinian liberation" often cite Israeli's occupation of the West Bank, which is split into areas controlled by Palestinian authorities and Israeli authorities. They also cite the ongoing sea, land, and air blockade of the Gaza Strip as further evidence, and claim Arabs in Israel are treated as second-class citizens. They also accuse Israel of committing "war crimes," and blame Israel for Palestinian deaths.
Israel has made it clear, however, that Israeli Defense Forces take special pains to avoid civilian casualties, while Hamas terrorists use their own citizens as "human shields," firing rockets from dense residential areas that often fail to make it across the border.
International pressure has increased for a ceasefire in recent days, but doing so would allow Hamas to win, an Israeli official said Tuesday.
"We say to stop prematurely is to give Hamas the victory it wants," the Israeli official told ABC News. "Hamas has to come out of this defeated."Far-left Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot is granting one-on-one interviews only to "black or brown journalists," a number of local TV news reporters said on social media Tuesday.
What are the details?
Mary Ann Ahern — a political reporter for NBC affiliate WMAQ-TV in Chicago — tweeted that Lightfoot's spokeswoman said the mayor "is granting 1 on 1 interviews — only to Black or Brown journalists."
Ahern also made reference to Lightfoot arriving at the "midway point" in her mayoral term, which Fox News said apparently signals that Ahern tried and failed to land an interview with Lightfoot.
Paris Schultz — "Chicago Tonight" co-anchor and political correspondent for WTTW-TV — reacted to Ahern's news regarding Lightfoot granting interviews only to reporters of color by tweeting that he "was told the same thing."
When George Cardenas, the city's 12th Ward alderman, piped in as well and remarked "how is that even true, be serious," Ahern tweeted back saying indeed it's true, and Heather Cherone — Chicago politics reporter for WTTW — added that "I can confirm, alderman."
With that, Cardenas remarked, "This should be corrected."
Fox News said Lightfoot's office did not immediately respond to its request for comment.
How did other folks react?
As you might imagine, an outcry ensued on social media charging Lightfoot with racism and discrimination:
"Can you imagine if a white mayor did this???" one commenter asked.
"That is only slightly racist!! But to be expected," another user said. "She is judging people based on the color of their skin and not the content of their character. What a wonderful role model! NOT! She needs to be removed immediately."
"So condoning the murders of the people of Chicago wasn't enough, now she admits she is racist," another commenter wrote. "What's next? Will she admit she is a terrorist Hamas supporter, too? I guess being a failed politician wasn't enough."
But not everyone agreed:
"So, she's doing what white majors [sic] have always done, but in reverse," one user observed. "Where's the lie/problem?"
"Y'all know that white people can read those interviews, too, right?" another commenter asked. "I don't understand what the issue is."
"Thank you Mayor Lightfoot," another user said. "Black and Brown journalist[s] will not distort you[r] words. Our communities have been underrepresented too long. I applaud your efforts for bringing equity, fairness, and celebrating the rich culture in Chicago neighborhoods."
Anything else?
Fox News noted that it's unclear when Lightfoot began limiting one-on-one interviews to journalists of color — and if the policy applies only to local reporters, given that MSNBC's Stephanie Ruhle interviewed the mayor Monday.Vice President Kamala Harris keeps a running tab on journalists and politicians whom she thinks don't "fully understand" or "appreciate her life experience," The Atlantic reported this week in a profile of the former California senator.
Harris, who is frequently criticized for sidestepping questions and hiding behind talking points, apparently uses the list to avoid interviews with certain individuals.
"The vice president and her team tend to dismiss reporters. Trying to get her to take a few questions after events is treated as an act of impish aggression," the article states. "And Harris herself tracks political players and reporters whom she thinks don't fully understand her or appreciate her life experience."
One example of a supposedly blacklisted journalist is Washington Post reporter Chelsea Janes, who soured in Harris' eyes after she mistook the "skee-wee" cheer of the historic Black sorority Alpha Kappa Alpha for "screeches."
Harris also reportedly takes issue with certain words used to describe her, for instance, she "particularly doesn't like the word cautious, and aides look out for synonyms too. Careful, guarded, and hesitant don't go over well," the article says.
Nevertheless, "she continues to retreat behind talking points and platitudes in public, and declines many interview requests and opportunities to speak for herself (including for this article)," the article notes, adding that "at times, she comes off as so uninteresting that television producers have started to wonder whether spending thousands of dollars to send people on trips with her is worthwhile, given how little usable material they get out of it."
Coming to Harris's defense, however, was progressive Cook County prosecutor Kim Foxx, who called the vice president's behavior a necessary tactic for a pioneering black woman.
"There's a reality of doing this work as a woman and a Black woman — and it often isn't talked about a lot publicly — that there's a presumed resilience around people who are first," Foxx told The Atlantic. "There is a celebration of what it means to break the ceiling, and not nearly the conversation of what the cuts to your head look like."
Another contributing factor could be that the vice president seems to cackle, or laugh nervously, whenever she's put on the hot seat by a reporter or faced with a question for which she doesn't have a prepared answer.
Last October during an interview with CBS's "60 Minutes," Harris did just that — laugh nervously — at the suggestion that President Joe Biden was a Trojan horse for her socialist policies.Over the past 14 months, all Americans have had their lives at least somewhat under the capricious control of the double-minded Anthony Fauci.
Same goes for every business and the decision of whether the business can be open and to what extent. Same goes for every school and every house of worship as well. Even whether we're permitted to breathe the free air outside once we're allowed to leave our homes.
And Fauci was granted that unprecedented authority without a single vote cast.
That level of power bestowed without direct consent of the governed would be dangerous enough to a free people even if it were given to someone with proven competence and reliable consistency. Absolute power corrupts absolutely even in the best of hands.
However, when that much power is given to someone with little regard for intellectual honesty and as schizophrenically wrong as Fauci has repeatedly proven to be, you end up with one of the darkest hours in our nation's history.
Such a long train of abuses requires a reckoning. While a 9/11 type of tribunal is what's required here, for now let us focus on these three headliners:
● Fauci has already admitted to lying to the American people regarding masks and the herd immunity threshold for COVID-19. These are two of the most contentious debates surrounding the pandemic, hence hardly insignificant points. Once someone has admitted to being a liar, how do you know they're not lying about everything else? How do you when to trust them and when not to?
● As we chronicle in our best-selling book "Faucian Bargain: The Most Powerful and Dangerous Bureaucrat in American History," the Fauci flip-flops are legion. It would require a series of columns to itemize them all, and it took us an entire book to do it. Suffice to say, there isn't anything of substance pertaining to COVID-19 that Fauci has not flip-flopped on. One of our favorite examples actually occurred after our book was published. On April 18, Fauci said on "Meet the Press" the vaccinated still need to wear masks, as if they had not been vaccinated. But then later that same day on CBS, Fauci was incredulous that some Republicans (because don't all non-partisan bureaucrats single Americans out by political party?) wanted COVID restrictions lifted without getting vaccinated. Thus, on the same day Fauci said you couldn't go back to normal even if you're vaccinated, he said we needed to be vaccinated to go back to normal. Makes perfect sense, or not.
● The right to seek a second opinion is fundamental to our health care system. Yet through Fauci's refusal to consider any viewpoints that don't align with his particular narrative, the American people have been denied access to contrarian views from world-class experts from esteemed universities such as Oxford, Harvard, Yale, Stanford, and Carnegie Mellon — each of which are ranked among the most prestigious pillars of academia in this nation or on this planet. Yet they have been consistently ignored in exchange for whatever flat-earth voodoo Fauci is peddling at the moment.
We could continue with more, such as Fauci's refusal for whatever reason to ignore natural immunity in his herd immunity calculations. The emerging story about his bureaucracy's ties to the Wuhan Institute of Virology and the controversial gain-of-function research conducted there. Or the fact that he is now admitting the entire premise of locking down the country and quarantining the healthy — Walking Dead-like fear of asymptomatic spread — isn't really a thing.
By now, though, you get the picture. Fauci is a bureaucratic tumor that has been allowed to metastasize. We now see even more public health officials following his nefarious lead. CDC Director Rochelle Walensky theatrically warned of "impending doom" in late March, before last week dramatically downgrading her agency's mask-wearing guidelines without citing any specific science whatsoever. Which at least suggests there never really was any specific science justifying what's now become an annoying mask cult.
Fellow Biden adviser Michael Osterholm warned "the darkest days were yet to come" over the next six to 14 weeks back in early February. Fourteen weeks later, cases are down 76% across the country, total hospitalizations are at their collective lowest in eight months, and U.S. excess mortality has fallen to pre-pandemic levels. As the great Bob Uecker once said, "Just a bit outside."
In his front cover endorsement of our book, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis specifically credited his state's success to his refusal to follow Faucism. While Fauci was ridiculously praising nursing home menace Andrew Cuomo, DeSantis was following actual science and data that our book proves has largely been known for a year. DeSantis followed it while others followed Fauci, and the results now speak for themselves.
We've heard enough of Fauci's forked tongue. The country has suffered enough under his reign of terror. End the failure theater once and for all.Arsonists reportedly tried to burn down Alberta, Canada, Pastor Artur Pawlowski's garage earlier this week, the embattled preacher said.
Pawlowski made headlines in April after kicking out mask-enforcing inspectors and police from his church, calling them "Gestapo Nazi communist fascists."
Earlier in May, police arrested both Pawlowski and his brother for holding a church service despite the country's COVID-related ban on such services. Alberta currently has a 15-person cap on religious gatherings across the province due to the coronavirus pandemic.
What are the details?
Pawlowski spoke with Rebel News for an interview published on Monday, where he detailed a suspicious fire that broke out on his property just a week after his viral arrest.
Pawlowski recalled the moment when he and his wife went outside during the middle of the night on Saturday following noise and commotion. They discovered the ultimate shock: Firefighters were on the scene at their home extinguishing a fire that had broken out in their garage.
The fire, the pastor said, was reportedly started with cardboard stuffed inside a blue bin that was shoved up against the garage's wooden door.
"Someone set our property on fire, someone wants us dead," he told the outlet. "And I'm thinking, 'Why?' I'm feeding the poor, I'm feeding Muslims, I'm feeding homosexuals. I'm feeding whites, and Asians, and blacks. I'm feeding people and I'm not hurting anyone and they want me dead and they want my children dead."
He added that it was inconceivable that in today's world, people could want each other dead over their differences.
"This is shocking," the outspoken pastor admitted. "I would never imagine that we would be living in a country that the differences — you know, our rights to be different, our rights to be able to express ourselves in a different way than others — would be punishable by death by some of those people."
'All in the name of tolerance?'
Pawlowski also added that he believes he is the target of a hate crime.
"I don't know what can be done," he said. "If someone wants to hurt you, I guess they've got all kinds of ways. If they want to hurt you, they can hurt you."
Pawlowski added, "You don't have to like me, but my God, you want me dead? And my children? Why? All in the name of tolerance?"
The outlet reported that Calgary police have yet to announce any suspects in the mysterious fire.
'Freedom to worship God'
Rebel News reported that Pawlowski will be the beneficiary of a legal action fund called "Save Artur."
"Lockdown lovers, public health officials, mainstream media, and even neighbors have cast stones (and sometimes dog feces and nails) at Pastor Artur's decision to defy the government's encroachment onto our most basic civil liberty: the freedom to worship God," the outlet reported.
The outlet noted, "Our crowdfunding efforts have provided Pastor Artur with top-notch lawyers since his first lockdown ticket last year to his arrest and bail last week."President Joe Biden's attempt to heap praise on Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich,) during his speech at a Ford factory was undermined by his inability to pronounce her name correctly despite trying three times.
Biden was visiting the Ford Rouge Electric Vehicle Center in Dearborn, Michigan, on Tuesday when he made the remarks. He appeared to call the controversial far left congresswoman "Rashid" instead of her name, "Rashida."
"Rashid, Tlaib, where's Rashid?" said Biden during the speech.
"I tell you what, Rashid, I want to say to you that I admire your intellect, I admire your passion, and I admire your concern for so many other people. And from my heart, I pray that your grandmom and family are well, I promise you I'm gonna do everything to see that they are, in the West Bank," he added.
"You're a fighter and God thank you for being a fighter," Biden said as the audience applauded.
The comments came after Tlaib confronted Biden on the tarmac of Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport about the mounting death count in the military conflict between Palestinians and Israel.
Biden angered many on the far left when he said in a statement on Wednesday that Israel had a right to defend itself against the rocket attacks being fired from the Gaza Strip.
Tlaib responded angrily by pointing out that Biden's statement made no mention of the Palestinians at all.
"How many of my colleagues are willing to say the same, to stand for Palestinian human rights as they do for Israel? How many Palestinians have to die for their lives to matter?" she said in a speech on the floor of Congress.
Tlaib is the only Palestinian-American representative in Congress. She has been accused of using anti-Semitic themes that allude to the complete removal of the state of Israel.
Here's video of Biden mispronouncing Tlaib's name:A 10-year-old boy made an impassioned speech to his school board last week arguing for the panel to end its mask mandate in the district, and the video of his argument has gone viral.
The child addressed an emergency meeting of Florida's Martin County School Board, where he called out the hypocrisy of adults he saw flouting the same rules being imposed on kids.
What are the details?
"I expected school to be a little bit different in the beginning, but I didn't think it would stay this way all year long," the fourth grader identified only as John, begins. "And I was surprised by the rules. A lot of them didn't make any sense to me, like the fact that we were not allowed to play on the playground or have student council — or turn to face each other a lunch. And, we also have to wear masks outside at PE and on track."
John pointing out during his speech that he has seen multiple instances of teachers breaking the mask requirements. One teacher, he says, yelled at kids for pulling down their masks to drink water outside while waiting to be picked up by their parents.
"She had her mask down the entire time she was yelling at us, which makes me and all my friends very mad," John explained.
"This happens a lot," he continued. "And it seems unfair teachers take their masks off while they yell at us kids and that we need to pull ours up. I asked my mom if there was a word for this, and she said there is: hypocrisy."
The boy went on to say that he ran into his own teacher outside of school a few weeks ago, and "she didn't even recognize me, because she's never seen my face before."
"I know it was her because she sits at her desk a lot without a mask on," John said, adding, "I know my teacher has asthma and everything, but I understand why it's hard for her to wear a mask. And I think she should have that choice. But I should, too."
"I have allergies and I feel really anxious with my face covered, but I'm not allowed a mask break like her," he argued. "It seems unfair. All this seems unfair and it doesn't make sense."
Anything else?
BizPac Review reported that John made his speech with twelve days remaining in the school year, in hopes that the board might lift their mask mandates for the remainder of the year. But no luck: The board voted 4 to 1 to make masks optional starting the day after the school year ends.A conservative campaign aims to pressure companies against "woke capitalism" through television advertisements criticizing CEOs who have kowtowed to the agenda of left-wing political activists.
Consumers' Research told CNBC their million dollar ad campaign will target Nike, Coca-Cola, and American Airlines.
"Increasingly we're seeing companies taking their eye off the ball," said Consumers' Research executive director William Hild.
"Our focus is always on the consumer," he added. "And that's what it should be for these companies as well, but increasingly we're seeing them work to curry favor with woke politicians, rather than focusing on serving their consumers."
Nike was criticized sharply by many on the right after they signed Colin Kaepernick, the controversial former NFL quarterback, to a million dollar ad campaign. The conservative effort will pressure Nike CEO John Donohoe to answer for allegations of forced labor in China.
Here's the ad against Nike:
Cover www.youtube.com
"Congressional reports suspect Nike used forced labor in China," the ad against Nike says. "Religious minorities were ripped from their families, sterilized, sold to factories. Nike made shoes in those same areas."
Coca-Cola faced similar criticism when the company's CEO James Quincy repeated liberal talking points against Georgia's election reform laws. The conservative campaign will target Quincy over obesity in America.
"We're putting these three companies on notice that consumers have had it, and they need to focus on serving their consumers and not woke politicians," Hild told the Washington Examiner.
The ads will run on CNBC, Fox Business and local stations in cities where the companies have their headquarters.
Consumers' Research said it will not disclose how the campaign is being funded in order to preserve the privacy of their donors.
Here's the CNBC report on the campaign:A heated argument between Meghan McCain and Joy Behar over Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) on "The View" was only ended when co-host Whoopi Goldberg asked for the show to go commercial break.
Behar was pummeling the Republican party for not taking action against Gaetz when McCain said no one in the party cared what Behar thought they should do.
"The only sin that you commit in the Republican party these days is if you say Biden won the election, everything else is fine!" said Behar during the show on Tuesday.
"They don't care what you do there as long as you say that Trump won the election!" she added.
McCain replied that she had many friends and family members who worked in Republican political circles and that she heard from most them that they were embarrassed about the accusations against Gaetz.
Gaetz revealed in March that he was under investigation for allegedly having sex with an underage woman, but he said that the claims were actually a part of an extortion scheme by an FBI agent. On Monday, a former friend of Gaetz pleaded guilty to multiple federal charges including sex trafficking a minor, leading many to speculate that Gaetz would be soon implicated in the crimes.
Behar fired back at McCain by referring to the GOP as the "QAnon party," which triggered McCain into shouting back at her.
"I think you can call it whatever you want, because your influence in the Republican party is almost zero," said McCain.
"Really?!" replied Behar.
"And again, as I have said on this show, it is for us to figure out amongst ourselves," McCain continued.
"What Republican is like, 'Joy Behar doesn't like my party, oh God, I better stop voting for them now,'" McCain added, "the same way I have no influence on the left, I don't think, at least!"
The debate devolved into a shouting match, which precipitated Goldberg to ask the show to go a commercial break. When the show returned, Sunny Hostin made it clear that Gaetz had denied all the allegations and has not been charged with any crime.
Despite the dispute, McCain made it clear she was no fan of Matt Gaetz.
"Matt Gaetz is a pervert who should go to jail!" she claimed.
Here's the entire segment on The View:Several Republicans refused to wear their masks on the House floor Tuesday afternoon in a rebellion against Speaker Nancy Pelosi's (D-Calif.) refusal to lift the mandate, despite the threat of hefty fines for the rule violation.
What are the details?
Politico reported ahead of the protest that Rep. Brian Mast (R-Fla.) announced during a GOP conference meeting earlier in the day that he is "done" wearing masks, and will refuse to wear one on the House floor.
Mast confirmed his plan to the outlet, and said "many" of his colleagues agreed to do the same.
Rep. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) tweeted from the House floor later, "We've had enough. We are refusing to wear our masks on the floor during this vote in spite of Pelosi's threat to take $500 from each of us. Her rule is not based on science. All you need to know is the mask rule has only ever applied to members when they can be seen on TV !"
Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R) later tweeted out a photo of herself along with Reps. Mary Miller (R-Ill.), Ralph Norman (R-S.C.) and Massie declaring, "#FreeYourFace Masks are oppressive and nothing but a political tool. End the oppression!"
Greene also posted a picture of herself along with seven other Republicans outside the steps of the Capitol, tweeting, "Proud to join these Patriots for a peaceful protest on the House floor against mask mandates!"
Journalist Jordan Schactel reported that other GOP members who joined the protest included Reps. Lauren Boebert (Colo.), Chip Roy (Texas), Bob Good (Va.), Beth Van Duyne (Texas), and Greg Steube (Fla.).
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) is expected to introduce a motion on the topic on Wednesday, but sources told Politico that the "language is still being worked out."
What's the background?
Pelosi insists on keeping her mask mandate in place — threatening members with $500 fines on a first offense and $2,500 for a second — despite the CDC announcing last week that fully vaccinated Americans can stop wearing masks indoors in most places.
The speaker's move was condemned by several GOP lawmakers, including Mast, who tweeted that her action was "not about science" and "all about power."
The Hill pointed out that the Senate never had a mask mandate in place, and both Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Senate Minority Leaders Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) ditched their masks following the CDC's new guidance.Republican Andrew Giuliani, the son of former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani (R), announced Tuesday that he is officially running to become the next governor of New York state — and he came out swinging against the incumbent, embattled Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D).
What are the details?
Giuliani, 35, told the New York Post, "Giuliani vs. Cuomo. Holy smokes. Its Muhammad Ali vs. Joe Frazier," referring to the 1971 bout for the heavyweight title. "We can sell tickets at Madison Square Garden. It would be one of the epic showdowns in the state's history."
He says, "I know we can defeat Andrew Cuomo in 2022. I am going to be the 57th governor of New York."
"It was Andrew Cuomo's actions that killed 9,000 senior citizens in nursing homes in New York," Giuliani said, referring to Democrat's order early in the pandemic to force nursing homes to accept COVID-19 positive patients, which Giuliani called "the worst."
"He should have resigned," Giuliani said of the governor. "Cuomo didn't use the USS Comfort ship or the Javits Center to house seniors with COVID. He didn't want to give President Trump a political victory."
Giuliani says he will run on a platform focusing on supporting businesses, law enforcement and school choice.
He previously worked as associate director of the U.S. Office of Public Liaison for four years during former President Donald Trump's administration. While he has never been elected to an office, he told the Post, "I'm a politician out of the womb. It's in my DNA."
Anything else?
Giuliani still has to make it through the GOP primary, but his announcement comes as both his Democratic opponent and his father are facing legal battles.
New York Attorney General Letitia James (D) is currently conducting an investigation into several sexual harassment allegation against Cuomo, along with a second probe into whether the governor used state resources to complete and promote his memoir on COVID-19 leadership.
Meanwhile, Rudy Giuliani's Manhattan apartment was raided by the FBI last month reportedly as part of "a criminal investigation into Mr. Giuliani's dealings in Ukraine," according to The New York Times.
On the day of the raid, Andrew held a press conference defending his father and blasting the DOJ.
"This is disgusting," Andrew told reporters. "This is absolutely absurd, and it's the continued politicization of the Justice Department."
"If this can happen to the former president's lawyer, this can happen to any American," he continued. "Enough is enough."
He added, "To all Americans out there, our Justice Department should be independent of politics. Enough is enough, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot stand for this anymore."A mother begged police to check in on her two children who were visiting with their father in Nebraska after she hadn't heard from them in days. They were later found dead and the father fled to California, according to police.
Mary Nielsen called police on Saturday evening to check on her children, 5-year-old Emily and 3-year-old Theodore, after not hearing from Adam Price. The two were involved in divorce proceedings.
Nielsen said she spoke to the children on Thursday evening, but was not able to reach them or their father on Friday or Saturday.
Nielsen lives in Illinois and Price lives in Bellevue, Nebraska.
Bellevue police tried to make contact with Price at his home on Saturday evening to no avail. They tried again on Sunday morning and received no response. They said that they saw nothing suspicious and did not force entry into the home.
"We did not have any information telling us we had reason to believe the children were in danger," said Bellevue police spokesman Capt. Andy Jashinski. "The only concern was the mom had not spoken with the kids… in 48 hours."
Nielsen resorted to asking a friend to check in on the children after police were unable to do anything.
That person found the bodies of the children at about 11 a.m. on Saturday.
While Price was under court order to provide daily contact between the children and the mother while they were in his home, police said that was not sufficient cause to enter the man's home without permission.
Price was arrested on Sunday in the beachfront city of Pacifica in California, near San Francisco.
He faces two felony charges of child abuse resulting in death. Police did not immediately elaborate on the specific causes of death of the children.
Nielson told the World-Herald that Price had been "abusive, controlling and manipulative."
Autopsies on the two children were performed on Monday, but results were still pending on Tuesday.
A GoFundMe campaign to help the mother with the funeral expenses had raised over $35,000 by Tuesday.
Here's a local news video about the disturbing incident:The Biden administration is planning to waive sanctions against the company in charge of building the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline from Russia into Germany, according to a new report.
What are the details?
Axios reported Tuesday that according to two sources briefed on the matter, the State Department is set to submit its 90-day report to Congress detailing which entities linked to Nord Stream 2 "deserve sanctions."
"The State Department will also acknowledge the corporate entity in charge of the project — Nord Stream 2 AG and its CEO, the Putin crony and former East German intelligence officer Matthias Warnig — are engaged in sanctionable activity," the outlet noted, adding, "However, the State Department will waive the applications of those sanctions, citing U.S. national interests."
The move would be an about-face from former President Donald Trump's position on the pipeline, but it would also appear to go against Secretary of State Antony Blinken's declaration during his confirmation hearing that he was "determined to do whatever we can to prevent that completion" of the project.
The Hill pointed out that the "completion of the pipeline would allow fuel from Russia to bypass Ukraine to reach Europe, undermining the nation's connection to western Europe."
In order to stop the project — which is 95% complete and could be finished this summer — the Biden administration has determined they would need to sanction German citizens, a move they are not willing to make because of the damage it could cause to U.S.-German relations.
How are people reacting?
Reactions to the news were mixed on social media.
Journalist Glenn Greenwald tweeted, "This is genuinely a huge gift to Putin: Biden is waiving sanctions which will effectively allow Germany to buy natural gas from the Russian pipeline. Trump spent years trying to sabotage this deal: crucial to Russian interests. Biden is allowing it."
"Good," one person replied. "Sanctioning Europe for where it buys its gas is insane."
Greenwald responded, "Of course. But so was the four-year narrative that Putin controlled Trump, especially given Trump's argument that Germany should buy natural gas from the US, not Russia, given NATO expenditures to protect Germany. But the media didn't care."
Another individual weighing in on the Axios article wrote, "Wait, wasn't Trump supposed to have been the Russian agent?"
Someone else tweeted," I agree with [Biden] revoking the sanctions," leading another to reply, "So does Vladimir."Little League baseball coaches in Alexandria, Virginia, will be required to receive training in "anti-racism" this month, the Washington Free Beacon reported.
What are the details?
The city's Little League board President Sherry Reilly in an email to coaches last week said the league had partnered with the Positive Coaching Alliance and that all coaches and league board members were asked to cancel May 24 practices to make room for a Sports Can Battle Racism workshop, the paper said.
The Free Beacon said the workshop document for coaches includes themes such as "Create a Caring Climate" to "Model Anti-Racist Behavior" and that coaches are encouraged to teach themselves to take note of their own "internalized racism" and look for "potential institutional racism" in the community. The paper added that coaches also are asked to "be on the lookout" for moments that can serve as "anti-racism learning opportunities."
Casey Miller, a spokeswoman for the Positive Coaching Alliance, told the Free Beacon that training costs are between $1,000 to $10,000 but didn't say how much the Alexandria Little League spent on the yearlong partnership or the coaches' training.
The training will be conducted over Zoom, the paper said, near the end of the Little League's spring season, which ends the first week of June.
Pushback from a parent
Alexandria parent Barry Bennett, however, told the paper that the Little League coaches' training is "a bunch of busybodies virtue signaling. Leave 10-year-olds alone."
As it happens, Alexandria is a decidedly far-left city; of the residents who voted in the last presidential election, 80% voted Democratic. The paper added that Positive Coaching Alliance's online resource library for "overcoming racism in sports" is similar to the "antiracist" and critical race theory-based training in some of the public schools in the state.
More from the Free Beacon:
Virginia school districts have mandated similar training for their teachers. Arlington County schools required teachers to participate in an equity training program in which they were taught how to create an "actively antiracist learning environment." Loudoun County schools spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on teacher training sessions based on critical race theory—the idea that American institutions are inherently racist.
One resource, geared toward high school student athletes, is a definition guide with more than 30 entries, such as "cultural appropriation," "systemic racism," and "intersectionality." The guide links equality with "meritocracy" and includes an addendum that asks "whether equality is enough" and if "equity is a more important principle."
Gender "transcend[s] biology," according to the guide, and is "very complex since people can identify in diverse ways." It notes that Facebook offers more than 70 gender options.
The alliance also offers a quiz that allows high school athletes to assess their "privilege." Being a child of a parent or guardian with a college degree is one example of privilege. Athletes and coaches can also use the website's "identity wheel," which includes sections on sex, sexual preference, race, and religion, to "increase awareness of how privilege operates to normalize some identities over others."
But parents of late have been battling woke overreach:In a bizarre and frenzied rant Monday evening, CNN anchor Chris Cuomo blasted pro-life Americans as racist haters of science over their attempts to challenge the legal precedents behind abortion rights established in the landmark case of Roe v. Wade.
Cuomo, obviously irked by the Supreme Court's decision to hear a Mississippi case this fall which could result in a major rollback of abortion rights, vented on his primetime show that conservative challenges to abortion laws are "not really about science" but are merely political tactics used to divide people and distract from real policy reform.
The case set for consideration is Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. It concerns a 2018 abortion law passed in Mississippi that bans abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, which critics say is before the fetus becomes viable, or is able to survive outside the womb.
In the state's petition to the court, Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch argued, "It is well past time for the Court to revisit the wisdom of the viability bright-line rule."
A legitimate question to be posed, one would think. But Cuomo saw it differently.
"You would think that we would have impaneled experts on a special commission by now to see what the science says, right, but we don't seem to have the intellectual curiosity about this issue," the progressive anchor said on his CNN show.
"Because it's not really about science — it has become a culture war. It's a political lever to use as a distraction from policy and solving problems, to allow people to get up in their religion and their righteousness," he continued.
"It's not about science or consensus," Cuomo went on. "It's about dividing lines, legislating to the far-right white-fright vote, flooding the zone with 536 bills that abridge a woman's right to control her own body, in 46 states."
"It's just like voting rights in one way," Cuomo strangely charged, comparing the effort to limit abortions to Republican state voting initiatives in places like Georgia characterized by progressives as racist and the "new Jim Crow."
During the rant, Cuomo even seemed to push back against his own perspective by arguing that science may be on the side of the pro-life movement.
He noted that modern "medical capabilities may be moving the point of viability well short of what it was assumed to be in 1973 with Roe v. Wade," a point which was in fact elucidated in Mississippi's petition to the Supreme Court.In yet another chilling moment of recent broad daylight anti-Semitism, cellphone video caught the moment a pro-Palestinian counter-demonstrator in Vienna, Austria, cupped his hands around his mouth and hollered at pro-Israel activists, "Stick the Holocaust up your ass!"
More disturbing still was the loud cheering and applause that followed the man's outburst:
What are the details?
A Google translation of a story from the Heute news outlet indicated that opposing factions filled the streets of Vienna all day Saturday, and numerous videos showed a massive police presence.
The outlet said around 5 p.m. a rally "Against all anti-Semitism" took place near an opera house, and it quickly attracted a counterprotest "consisting of Turkish nationalists, young people, and advocates of Palestine."
Heute said the counterprotest was "obviously intended to disrupt the pro-Israel demonstration," and it also reported the "grossly anti-Semitic slogan" recorded in the above video along with the "raging applause and cheers" that followed.
A subsequent tweet from Vienna police said they forwarded video to the Office for the Protection of the Constitution and that "presumably this person was stopped a short time later..."
Anything else?
Violent anti-Semitism flared up in several major cities across the globe over the weekend, including beatings in Toronto and chants in London that included, "F*** the Jews! F*** their daughters! F*** their mothers! Rape their daughters! We have to send a message!"
And while the man's anti-Semitic outburst in Vienna didn't include violence, the huge kudos he received from other counterprotesters seemed equally as chilling due to the lack of pushback and apparent matter-of-fact consensus among the crowd.
According to German news site DW, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif called off a Saturday visit to Austria after Israeli flags were raised on government buildings in Vienna.
A spokeswoman for Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg said "we will not remain silent while Hamas fires 2,000 rockets at civilian targets in Israel," the news site reported.
DW added that Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said flying the flag over the federal chancellery on Friday was in solidarity with Israel amid clashes with Hamas.Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) doubled down on his criticism of the Associated Press Tuesday for allegedly operating its Gaza press bureau in a building shared by Hamas intelligence forces.
Journalists have rebuked Cotton after he defended an Israeli Defense Forces airstrike that destroyed the building housing the AP and other media outlets like Al Jazeera in a speech on the Senate floor Monday.
Israel said it obtained intelligence that Hamas forces were operating there and had alerted journalists and residents that the strike was imminent, allowing for the building to be evacuated before it was destroyed.
Cotton, in his speech, expressed skepticism of the AP's claims of having no knowledge of Hamas' presence in the building despite operating its bureau there for 15 years.
"Why is the Associated Press sharing a building with Hamas?" Cotton asked Monday. "Surely these intrepid reporters knew who their neighbors were."
"Did they knowingly allow themselves to be used as human shields by a U.S.-designated terrorist organization? Did the AP pull its punches and decline to report for years on Hamas' misdeeds?"
HIs questions drew widespread condemnation from members of the media, who accused him of making baseless accusations.
But the fiercely pro-Israel senator from Arkansas fired back at his critics in a follow-up speech on the Senate floor Tuesday.
"One would think that these are simple and reasonable questions, but I directed them to a media organization, so the usual suspects circled the wagon expressing more outrage at my audacity to question the AP's leadership than they do at Hamas for trying to kill Jews by the thousands," Cotton said, listing some of the disparaging remarks he's received from journalists on social media.
"The constant refrain of their criticism was that I was attacking the brave reporters of the Associated Press Gaza bureau. My claims were 'baseless', 'reckless', 'without evidence', they claimed. But in fact there's plenty of evidence that some media outlets stationed in Gaza allowed themselves to be used as pawns by Hamas."
Cotton cited a 2014 article written by a former AP journalist and published in The Atlantic that revealed AP journalists knew about Hamas occupying their Gaza building and had witnessed rockets being fired into Israel from just outside their office. The article's author, Matti Friedman, wrote that Hamas fighters had once burst into the AP's office and threatened the staff, but the AP never reported the incident.
"The AP instead turned a blind eye to terrorism and embraced a culture of silence on behalf of murderers who actively endangered its own reporters and staff," Cotton charged. "What's equally scandalous is the AP continued to locate their offices in a building they knew was dangerous."
"I'm not sure what's worse, that the AP knew they shared the building with Hamas or that they didn't know," he added, before going on to slam the Associated Press.
"Instead of uncovering the truth the AP concealed it. Then, when the IDF carried out its fully justified and wholly appropriate air strike, the AP condemned Israel in one final parting gift to their neighbors, Hamas," Cotton said.
"Would the AP allow its reporters to share a building with Al Qaeda? What about ISIS? Because there's little differences between these U.S.-designated terrorist organizations and Hamas."
Watch:DC Talk's Kevin Max has admitted that he is an "exvangelical," according to the Christian Post, and is working toward "progressing" and "deconstructing."
What are the details?
On Saturday, Max, a Grammy-winning vocalist, "came out" on Twitter, writing, "Hello, my name is Kevin Max & I'm an #exvangelical."
In responses to his initial tweet, Max said that he still believes in "the Universal Christ."
"For all those people using my post as plug & play for your own hot take or personal discourse, I offer the lyrics to an upcoming song off of my new band @AstronautsSad album 'Adult Fears' titled 'It's okay,'" he wrote. "I'm sorry for being obtuse or difficult but it's a process ... love."
The lyrics read:
It's ok to be estranged
From everything that you were taught
And it's ok
To unpack all the hopeless baggage that you bought
I know the sun it never shines
In the same place twice
And I know that life is better
With a trusted vice
But you will change
When you cave
To the universal Christ
And it's ok for you to lose
The shame from all the churches abuse
And it's ok
For them to see
You don't believe in man's inerrancy
I know the sun it never shines
in the place you hide
I know you think its better
Shrouded in secrets and lies
But you'll change
When you embrace
The glowing universal Christ
The outlet reported that some of those people leaving the Christian church have begun referring to themselves as the "nones" and are promoting a movement called "deconstruction" — translated as "deconstructing one's faith and leaving the church."
"Many who are 'deconstructing' have spoken out about their experiences getting hurt by people inside the Church," the outlet reported. "Others have cited their rejection of biblical teaching on sexuality as the reason they are disassociating."
In a later tweet, the self-described "leftist" added that he is "anti-war, pro-peace, anti-hate, pro-live, pro-LGBTQIA, pro-BLM, pro-open mindedness, anti-narrow mindedness, pro-utopia, anti-white nationalist agenda, pro-equality, pro-vax, pro-music, anti-1%rs, pro-poor, pro-misfit-pro-Jesus, etc[.]"
His remarks were in response to a user who asked, "Are you pro-Israel? Are you pro-Palestine? I'm pro-not-killing-people."
DC Talk - Jesus Freak (Original Video) www.youtube.com
What else?
In December, Max told Decent Christian Talk that he has begun the process of deconstruction, but prefers to refer to it as "reconstruction."
“I like to call it deconstruction, reconstruction," he said. “Any person that's really changing every day, which we do, you're going to deconstruct or you're going to reconstruct. So it's a combination of both of those things."
He continued, "I've been deconstructing for decades. I've always been progressing, as you can say, and then sometimes I regress. But I think where I'm at right now is I've really gone on a journey to find out what I truly believe in by reading a lot, thinking a lot, keeping my eyes and ears open."
Max also said that if Christians aren't progressing in their faith, they are growing stagnant.
"When you give in to the fear of 'Oh my gosh, I'm asking questions' or 'Oh man, I don't know if I believe in this anymore,' you're giving in to the same fear that you know kept us from progressing as people for so long," he explained. "The total totalitarian fear that's constant, in my opinion, in a lot of evangelical churches have made people regress over time.
"I feel like anybody out there going through it, they should just embrace it," he added. “If they're a believer, they should have these deep conversations with the God they believe in and really struggle with it, talk to Him about it."
He concluded, "I believe in a God of the universe, and I believe that He can hear me. And that, in itself, is just plain kind of crazy. But if I believe that, then I truly believe that He cares about my progression and asking questions and wanting to know what is real and what isn't real."A Scottish law student is being investigated by her school for making biologically factual statements about women and men, the U.K.'s Times reported. And now she faces possible expulsion.
What happened?
Lisa Keogh, a 29-year-old student at Abertay University in Scotland, is reportedly facing discipline from the school for telling her classmates that a woman must have a vagina — citing generally understood biology that females are born with female genitals — and that men are stronger than women and "the difference in physical strength of men versus women is a fact."
Keogh told the Times that she made the comments during a video seminar, which prompted the class lecturer to mute her. Her comments came as the class discusses the topic of men who identify as female taking part in mixed martial arts matches. She said she pointed out to the class not only that women have female body parts but also that in such a scenario the trans athlete "had testosterone in her body for 32 years and, as such, would be genetically stronger than your average woman."
She is also accused of calling women the "weaker sex" and having the gall to stand up for men after one of her classmates indicated that all men are rapists and pose a danger to women. Keogh admits to responding by calling her anti-men classmates "man-hating feminists."
"I didn't intend to be offensive but I did take part in a debate and outlined my sincerely held views," she said, the Times reported. "I was abused and called names by the other students, who told me I was a 'typical white, cis girl.' You have got to be able to freely exchange differing opinions otherwise it's not a debate."
Those statements did not sit well with her younger classmates who anonymously reported her to the school's higher-ups.
Her lawyers have described the entire thing as "farcical," the paper said.
And Keogh apparently agrees, having told the Times that after she received an email accusing her of uttering transphobic and offensive comments during a class on gender feminism.
"I thought it was a joke," she said. "I thought there was no way that the university would pursue me for utilising my legal right to freedom of speech.
"I wasn't being mean, transphobic or offensive," Keogh said. "I was stating a basic biological fact. I previously worked as a mechanic and when I was in the workshop there were some heavy things that I just couldn't lift but male colleagues could."
What's next?
Now Keogh, a mother of two who aspires to be a human rights attorney, faces possible expulsion and fears she could lose her chance to "make a positive contribution" all because a handful of anonymous younger classmates had their feelings hurt.
"I'm worried that my chance of becoming a lawyer, and making a positive contribution, could be ended just because some people were offended," she said, according to the Times. "Those girls fresh out of high school who accused me are training to be lawyers. There are no trigger warnings in a courtroom. The judge isn't going to whisper softly or excuse them from listening to things they might not want to hear."
Abertay University told the Times that it would not comment on disciplinary matters.The sheriff's deputies who fatally shot 42-year-old black man Andrew Brown Jr. in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, last month were "justified" in doing so, a state prosecutor announced Tuesday.
In a news conference relaying the results of an independent investigation into the incident conducted by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, Pasquotank County District Attorney R. Andrew Womble said, "While tragic, the shooting of Mr. Brown was justified because of his actions."
The district attorney announced that none of the three Pasquotank County sheriff's deputies who fired their weapons during the incident will face charges since their actions were spurred on by Brown's use of his car as a "deadly weapon" while he was attempting to evade arrest, WAVY-TV reported.
"No officers will be criminally charged," Womble said. "The officers' actions were consistent with their training and fully supported under law."
"The deputies faced both actual and apparent danger as perceived by them on the scene," he added. "This apparent threat was reinforced by Brown's dangerous and felonious use of a deadly weapon. As tragic as this incident is with the loss of life, the deputies on scene were nonetheless justified in defending themselves from death or great bodily injury."
Brown was shot and killed while behind the wheel of his vehicle while deputies were attempting to serve a warrant for his arrest on felony drug charges on April 21, just days after a jury convicted former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin of murder and manslaughter for his role in George Floyd's death.
Body camera footage of the incident shows Brown accelerate his vehicle in attempt to vacate the area as deputies pulled up to his home to arrest him. Two deputies were situated in the direction that Brown was heading as he turned his vehicle and drove out of the driveway.
(Warning: The following video contains graphic content and vulgar language)
Pasquotank DA shows body cam footage from fatal shooting death of Andrew Brown www.youtube.com
But Brown's family and their lawyers had argued that law enforcement overreacted to the situation, needlessly firing at a suspect who was attempting to flee the scene, not hurt officers, NBC News reported. An autopsy report showed that Brown was struck with five bullets during the incident, including one to the back of the head, which proved fatal.
But in his explanation, Womble cited case law that grants police the right to use deadly force against a fleeing criminal suspect who is driving recklessly and thereby posing a threat to public safety.
"Once a threat is perceived ... and the officers fire the first shot, if the first shot is justified, the last shot is justified until the threat is extinguished," Womble said.
"But the question is when is that threat extinguished?" asked Duke University Law School professor Jim Coleman in an interview with NBC News. "It's very clear what was going on: He was trying to escape, he was not trying to ram his car into officers."Dr. Anthony Fauci, the chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden, claimed Sunday the coronavirus pandemic has revealed that America is incredibly racist.
What did Fauci say?
Speaking at a graduation ceremony for Emory University via webcast, Fauci claimed COVID-19 has exacerbated "the undeniable effects of racism" in America.
"COVID-19 has shown a bright light on our own society's failings," Fauci said, adding the disease "has uncovered a stark reality and failing of our own society."
Specifically, Fauci said the pandemic exposed "social determinants" — racial disparities engraved into American society, a tenet of critical race theory — that limit access to health care for people of color and make them especially vulnerable to diseases.
Such realities, Fauci claimed, make black people, Hispanics, and Native Americans more susceptible to chronic health problems, which meant they are more likely to face complications if they contract COVID-19.
"Now, very few of these comorbidities have racial determinants. Almost all relate to the social determinants of health dating back to disadvantageous conditions that some people of color find themselves in from birth regarding the availability of an adequate diet, access to health care, and the undeniable effects of racism in our society," Fauci said.
"Let us promise ourselves that our corporate memory of this tragic reality — that an infectious disease disparately kills people of color — does not fade," Fauci continued. "Righting this wrong will take a decades-long commitment. I urge you to be part of that commitment"
Dr. Fauci: Pandemic Exposed 'Undeniable Effects Of Racism' www.youtube.com
What does the data show?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released data last fall showing that, by and large, black people and Hispanics were disproportionately more likely to face complications from COVID-19, such as hospitalization and death, than white Americans.
In fact, analysis revealed that of the more than 114,000 Americans who died of COVID-19 between May and August 2020, nearly 19% were black and more than 24% were Hispanic.
Those numbers are disproportionate with American demographics, considering that just 13.4% of Americans are black and 18.5% are Hispanic.
"CDC researchers said in Friday's report that the disproportionately higher death rates among nonwhites likely stems from different cultural and socioeconomic causes," The Hill reported. "Minorities are more likely to live in multigenerational or multifamily housing; more likely to work in jobs that require their physical presence such as meatpacking, service and health care jobs; and more likely to suffer from underlying conditions, such as diabetes and obesity, that are tied to worse outcomes among COVID-19 patients."A Tesla running on autopilot crashed into a Washington state deputy's parked patrol vehicle on Saturday, Insider reported, causing "significant damage."
No one was injured in the crash, according to authorities.
What are the details?
Authorities said that the Tesla Model S was operating on autopilot when the accident took place in Arlington, a Seattle suburb in northeast Snohomish County.
In a Facebook statement, the sheriff's office said that the Tesla caused "significant damage" to the patrol vehicle, which was parked on the side of a city road at the time of the accident.
According to the outlet, the unnamed deputy was responding to an incident in which another vehicle ran into a power pole. The officer was only out of his vehicle for approximately 30 seconds when the Tesla rammed into the front-left side of the patrol vehicle.
The Facebook post said, "On Saturday, a deputy responded to a collision in the 25200 block of 103rd Ave NE where a vehicle sheared a power pole in half. The deputy parked on the shoulder on the road, with his emergency lights flashing, and exited his vehicle to speak with the Fire units on scene. Approximately 30 seconds later, a Tesla in 'autopilot' mode, struck the deputy's vehicle causing significant damage. Thankfully, there were no injuries from this collision."
The statement added, "This is a great reminder that vehicles may have autopilot to assist, but it cannot be relied upon to get you safely from one destination to the next."
A spokesperson for the Washington State Patrol told ABC News that the deputy had his overhead emergency lights activated at the time of the crash, and the deputy's vehicle was "partially blocking the roadway to protect the collision scene."
"While Troopers investigated the collision, the driver of the Tesla claimed that he had the vehicle in 'Auto-Pilot mode' and assumed the vehicle would slow and move over on its own," the statement added.
The name of the Tesla owner has yet to be disclosed at the time of this reporting, but ABC News reported that the driver was issued a ticket for the collision.
The Washington State Patrol is investigating the crash.
Tesla in autopilot mode crashes into Snohomish County sheriff's vehicle www.youtube.com
What else?
In April, two people died in Texas after a driverless Tesla slammed into a tree and burst into flames.
The vehicle reportedly burned for four hours — and more than 30,000 gallons of water — before firefighters were able to extinguish the fire. At one point, first responders had to contact Tesla for advice on how to extinguish the flames.
Authorities believed that the vehicle was on autopilot mode and failed to negotiate a curve in a cul-de-sac while traveling at a high rate of speed and stated that they were 100 percent "certain that no one was in the driver seat driving that vehicle at the time of impact."For the first time ever, an openly transgender person will be serving as a bishop for a major Christian denomination in the United States.
What are the details?
The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America last week elected Rev. Megan Rohrer, a biological female who identifies as a male, to serve as bishop for the Sierra Pacific synod, based in Sacramento, California, NPR reported.
In the new leadership role, which is set to last six years, Rohrer will oversee some 36,000 individual members from nearly 200 congregations in central and northern California and northern Nevada.
The 41-year-old bishop-elect, who currently serves as a pastor at Grace Evangelical Lutheran Church in San Francisco and as a community chaplain coordinator for the city's police department, told the Religion News Service that it was an "honor" to be called to serve the synod.
"During this time when some imagine trans people at their worst, Lutherans have once again declared that transgender people are beautiful children of God," Rohrer said in a statement to the news organization. "Thank you to everyone who has been praying for me and my family as I accept this call."
In 2006, Rohrer also became the first openly transgender person to be ordained to serve in the Lutheran church.
What else?
Known especially for street preaching and advocacy work in the Bay area, Rohrer in the past has also served on the Women's March and TransMarch steering committees, according to a biographical page on their personal website.
Rohrer, who grew up in South Dakota, is an outspoken activist for advancing LGBTQ causes who has gained some minor fame stemming from a profile in Cosmopolitan and an appearance on the TV series, "Queer Eye," where the bishop-elect, according to NPR, "lent support to an openly gay pastor in Philadelphia who was on an emotional journey to self-acceptance."
In the Cosmopolitan profile, the self-described "work in progress" prefers the pronouns they, them, and their because they haven't "really figured out I want to have my body in the rest of my life."
Rohrer added that they decided to pursue religious education and training "to vocalize what I knew in my gut was OK."
In the interview, Rohrer also launched an attack against conservative evangelicals who hold to the biblical position that homosexual activity is sinful.
"Using faith to tear other people down is not good news," Rohrer said. "We need to all be as loud and as angry as the people who want to declare that there are types of people that God can't love."Fox News' Sean Hannity hit out at Prince Harry for being a "right royal pain in the a**" after the British expat criticized the First Amendment, calling it "bonkers."
Harry made the remarks during a Thursday interview with celebrity podcaster Dax Shepard, prompting waves of criticism from Americans who demanded he show respect to the country in which he is staying.
What are the details?
Hannity on Monday pointed out that the First Amendment protected Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan Markle, after they publicly accused members of the royal family of being racist during a highly panned interview with Oprah Winfrey.
According to Page Six, Hannity began, "I have a special message tonight for England's royal pain in the a**, Prince Harry, who thinks America's First Amendment is, quote, 'bonkers.'"
"He needs an education — we'll give it to him," he teased.
"Harry, we don't really need you coming from England to give us lectures on the First Amendment," Hannity insisted later in the show. "And if you can't understand the importance of free expression and the importance of constitutional principles that allow for a free exchange of ideas and ideals and opinions that make America the greatest country on earth, then maybe it's time for you to move to a place more compatible with your restrictive ideas."
Hannity added that he pities Harry due to the controversy between Markle and Britain's royal family.
"In a way, I kind of feel sorry for you because you seem torn between your new bride and your family back in England," he said. "Understand this is the same First Amendment that allowed you and your wife to trash your own family in the Oprah Winfrey interview. You and Meghan were allowed to accuse your family of racism."
Hannity concluded, "We don't really need lectures about customs or sacred freedoms, and by the way: You're free to go home, make amends at the palace with the people that you and your wife hurt deeply."
What exactly did the prince say anyway?
During the widely criticized interview, Harry told Shepard, "I've got so much I want to say about the First Amendment. I still don't understand it, but it is bonkers."
He made the remarks in response to the notion of paparazzi taking photos of celebrities' children.
"I don't want to start going down the First Amendment route because that's a huge subject and one which I don't understand because I've only been here a short time, but you can find a loophole in anything," he continued. "You can capitalize or exploit what's not said rather than uphold what is said."
What was the response?
Meghan McCain, co-host on "The View," fired back at the prince and said, "We fought a war in 1776 so we don't have to care what you say or think. That being said, you have chosen to seek refuge from your homeland here and thrive because all of what our country has to offer and one of the biggest things is the 1st Amendment — show some utter respect."
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) chimed in, "Nice that he can say that."
Broadcaster Megyn Kelly added, "'Better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to speak and remove all doubt.' Lincoln or Twain or someone smarter than Prince Harry."House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) has likely killed a bipartisan agreement to form an independent commission to investigate the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol, coming out in opposition to the deal Tuesday.
The "9/11-style" commission proposal was put forward by House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.) and ranking member John Katko (R-N.Y.), who had agreed that the commission would be evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats and would have subpoena power if both sides agreed to use it.
The commission would investigate the circumstances leading up to the violence on Jan. 6, when a mob of President Donald Trump's supporters trespassed at the U.S. Capitol, assaulted police officers, and broke into Capitol Hill offices searching for lawmakers in an attempt to stop the certification of the Electoral College vote declaring Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 presidential election.
But McCarthy and House Republicans wanted to expand the scope of the commission's investigation to encompass other incidents of political violence, including the 2017 shooting at a Republican congressional baseball practice and the deadly attack on Capitol Police on April 2. Democrats refused to expand the investigation and the bipartisan deal that was reached would solely focus on the events of Jan. 6.
In a statement released Tuesday, McCarthy announced his opposition to the deal, accusing the proposed commission of being "duplicative" and "potentially counterproductive" given other ongoing bipartisan investigations into the events of Jan. 6 and the criminal investigations being conducted by U.S. law enforcement.
"For months, the Speaker of the House refused to negotiate in good faith on basic parameters that would govern a commission to examine the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol," McCarthy said.
"While the Speaker has wasted time playing political games, numerous Congressional and intergovernmental agency efforts have picked up the slack. There are ongoing bipartisan investigations into all facets of the January 6 events occurring inside the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, as well as the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration," he said.
McCarthy added that he supports the ongoing efforts of law enforcement to bring the rioters to justice, noting that the Department of Justice has announced 445 arrests in connection with the violence at the Capitol. He claimed the committee proposal as drafted might "interfere with and ultimately undermine these ongoing prosecutorial efforts," though he did not explain how.
"Finally, the renewed focus by Democrats to now stand up an additional commission ignores the political violence that has struck American cities, a Republican Congressional baseball practice, and, most recently, the deadly attack on Capitol Police on April 2, 2021. The presence of this political violence in American society cannot be tolerated and it cannot be overlooked. I have communicated this to our Democrat colleagues for months and its omission is deeply concerning," McCarthy continued.
"Given the political misdirections that have marred this process, given the now duplicative and potentially counterproductive nature of this effort, and given the Speaker's shortsighted scope that does not examine interrelated forms of political violence in America, I cannot support this legislation."
Reporters asked House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to respond to McCarthy's statement on Tuesday, and she said, "I'm very pleased that we have a bipartisan bill to come to the floor and it's disappointing but not surprising that the cowardice on the part of some on the Republican side not to want to find the truth."
President Joe Biden supports the bill to create the Jan. 6 commission, which will be voted on in the House Wednesday. It faces long odds to overcome a filibuster by Senate Republicans should it pass the House.Yagil Levy — a professor at the Open University of Israel — penned an analysis for the Washington Post suggesting Israel's "Iron Dome" rocket defense system works too well and, as the headline reads, "perpetuates" Israel's present fighting against Hamas terrorists.
What's the background?
Levy — who studies "civil-military relations, particularly casualty sensitivity, civilian control, military-religious relations, and the social makeup of the armed forces" — wrote last Friday that when Iron Dome was first used in 2012, the idea was to protect Israel's citizens from "prolonged threat and the disruption of daily life."
But he also suggested Iron Dome has worked too well — on multiple levels.
Besides also limiting potential harm to Gaza civilians, Levy said the defense system has allowed Israel to gain "freedom of action against Hamas (for example, imposing restrictions on trade between Gaza and the West Bank), knowing that their responses, and those of other militias, would have limited impact on Israeli lives."
Essentially, he said because Iron Dome intercepts just about all incoming rockets, it reduces the "expected costs of bombing Gaza" and "allows Israel to act with less concern for civilian casualties, and gives Israel less incentive to find a political solution to its conflict with Gaza."
Levy concluded his analysis by saying, "Iron Dome up to this point has saved Israeli lives from Gaza rocket attacks, while enabling air campaigns against Palestinian citizens. But the reduced pressure to resolve the conflict with Gaza also means Iron Dome gives Israelis a false sense of security, based on technological success — which isn't guaranteed forever — rather than political solutions."
How did readers react?
In light of an analysis that more or less says Iron Dome makes the fighting unfair, readers of the piece had a field day:Israeli Defense Forces took down a Gaza City building that housed multiple media outlets and personnel, including Associated Press journalists, over the weekend because, according to Israel's government, the building also housed Hamas assets and terrorists.
After the attack, the AP denied having any knowledge that Hamas was in the building, despite evidence to the contrary. Now a major U.S. newspaper wants to know why anyone should trust what the AP reports.
What happened?
On Saturday, IDF forces destroyed a Gaza City high-rise that housed the AP because it was a location also known to house Hamas, the terrorist organization currently lobbing thousands of rockets into Israel. An hour before launching its strike, the Israeli military warned civilians and journalists in the building that they needed to evacuate. As a result, zero members of the media were injured.
Following the strike, the IDF said, "After providing advance warning to civilians & time to evacuate, IDF fighter jets struck a multi-story building containing Hamas military intelligence assets. The building contained civilian media offices, which Hamas hides behind and deliberately uses as human shields."
But members of the AP decried the IDF's move, saying the media agency, which had been in the building for 15 years, had no idea Hamas was also on the premises.
The AP reported on the incident as though it was unaware of Hamas' presence, saying, "The Israeli military said it targeted the building because it contained assets of Hamas intelligence agencies, which it said were using media offices as 'human shields.' It did not provide evidence for the claims."
AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt said his organization was "shocked and horrified" by the move, claiming, "The Israeli government says the building contained Hamas military intelligence assets. We have called on the Israeli government to put forward the evidence."
"AP's bureau has been in this building for 15 years. We have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building," Pruitt asserted. "This is something we actively check to the best of our ability. We would never knowingly put our journalists at risk."
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu countered the AP's claims Sunday, telling CBS' "Face the Nation" that the building was a "perfectly legitimate target" and that the intelligence about Hamas' location was shared with the U.S. government.
Even more damning, former AP reporter Matti Friedman reported for The Atlantic in 2014 that the AP was fully aware of Hamas' presence.
The AP staff in Gaza City would witness a rocket launch right beside their office, endangering reporters and other civilians nearby—and the AP wouldn't report it, not even in AP articles about Israeli claims that Hamas was launching rockets from residential areas. (This happened.) Hamas fighters would burst into the AP's Gaza bureau and threaten the staff—and the AP wouldn't report it. (This also happened.) Cameramen waiting outside Shifa Hospital in Gaza City would film the arrival of civilian casualties and then, at a signal from an official, turn off their cameras when wounded and dead fighters came in, helping Hamas maintain the illusion that only civilians were dying. (This too happened; the information comes from multiple sources with firsthand knowledge of these incidents.)
What's this about trusting the AP?
In response to the AP's claim of ignorance about Hamas being in their building, the New York Post asked in a staff editorial in the Tuesday issue why anyone should trust the AP's reporting.
"If it's true that AP was so unaware — and the evidence suggests it's unlikely — how can anyone trust its reporting in the region?" the Post asked.
The paper indicated that, if the AP was unable to figure it out, its reporting abilities should be called into question. If AP did know, then its willingness to cover-up and obfuscate should lead people to question the agency's ability to deliver trustworthy news.
Citing Friedman's 2014 report, the Post said, it certainly appears the AP did know about Hamas occupying the same building and refused to reveal it.
"It seems that what AP doesn't know — and doesn't report — always favors Hamas over those the group terrorizes," the Post concluded.Lt. Col. Matthew Lohmeier, a Space Force commander who was relieved of his duty after criticizing "Marxist" ideology within the U.S. military, revealed Monday the extent of far-left ideology within American military ranks.
What is the background?
Last week, Military.com first reported that Lohmeier had been relieved of his post as commander of the 11th Space Warning Squadron at Buckley Air Force Base in Aurora, Colorado.
He was fired after appearing on a podcast where he promoted his book, "Irresistible Revolution: Marxism's Goal of Conquest & the Unmaking of the American Military."
A Space Force spokesman said:
This decision was based on public comments made by Lt. Col. Lohmeier in a recent podcast. Lt. Gen. Whiting has initiated a Command Directed Investigation on whether these comments constituted prohibited partisan political activity.
What did Lohmeier reveal?
Speaking with Fox News host Sean Hannity, Lohmeier explained that, over the past several years, he has witnessed "Marxist ideology parading around by other names."
In fact, Lohmeier told Hannity he witnessed aspects of critical race theory being taught to soldiers while in command over several months.
"There were videos being sent out to every base service member that we were asked to watch in preparation for our extremism down-days and discussions on race in which we were taught that the country was evil, that it was founded in 1619, and not 1776, and that whites are inherently evil," Lohmeier said.
In writing his book and speaking out, Lohmeier said he was just following guidance from Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, who called on military personnel to root out extremist ideologies within military ranks.
Austin issued a memo in February directing military commanders to conduct an "extremism down-day." According to NPR, the memo came as military commanders sought to address the growing threat of right-wing extremism.
"In the guidance memorandum, he basically gave an injunction to every service member to combat extremist ideologies within the force where they saw them, and to take it upon ourselves to protect one another and to speak up and educate one another about extremist ideologies, when we discovered them causing divisions within the force," Lohmeier said. "And that's me paraphrasing the guidance memorandum."
Space Force Commander speaks out after being 'relieved of duty' www.youtube.com
Anything else?
In a separate interview with Fox News Digital, Lohmeier denied being political or partisan, instead saying he was simply trying to follow Austin's directive.
"I don't believe I was being partisan. It is not politically partisan to expose or attack critical race theory or Marxism," Lohmeier said. "The reason I say that is because critical race theory and Marxism are antithetical to American values. Critical race theory fuels narratives that attack America's founding documents."
"I'm being misportrayed online — I don't criticize any leader, or any person in the DoD or any elected officials — but I try to tee up ideas that I think are toxic," he added.
Though he has been reassigned, Lohmeier said he has retained his rank.President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser, Dr. Anthony Fauci, on Tuesday confirmed what Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) told him two months ago about mask-wearing being unnecessary for Americans vaccinated against COVID-19.
Fauci appeared on ABC's"Good Morning America" to discuss the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's new mask recommendations, reiterating that the CDC says it's safe for vaccinated people to stop wearing face coverings. He explained that the science has "evolved" over the last few weeks to show that vaccinated people are protected from infection and that the risk of them spreading the virus to someone else is "extremely low, very very low."
When asked by host George Stephanopoulos how his personal mask-wearing habits have changed, Fauci responded that he feels more comfortable being seen in public indoors without a mask. Though he was vaccinated in December, Fauci said he had continued to wear a mask to avoid sending "mixed signals" to the American people by not wearing a mask.
"I'm obviously careful because I'm a physician and a health care provider. I am now much more comfortable in people seeing me indoors without a mask, I mean, before the CDC made the recommendation change I didn't want to look like I was giving mixed signals," Fauci told ABC News.
"But being a fully vaccinated person the chances of my getting infected in an indoor setting is extremely low. And that's the reason why in indoor settings now I feel comfortable about not wearing a mask because I'm fully vaccinated."
Exactly two months ago, on March 18, Fauci told a different story to Sen. Paul during a hearing on the pandemic response. Paul had grilled Fauci on the absence of scientific evidence to suggest that vaccinated Americans needed to wear masks.
"You're telling everybody to wear a mask whether they've had an infection or a vaccine, what I'm saying is they have immunity and everybody agrees they have immunity," Paul said. "What studies do you have that people who have had the vaccine or have had the infection are spreading the infection?"
"If we're not spreading the infection, isn't it just theater?" he pressed.
At the time, Fauci told Paul "I totally disagree with you" and insisted that mask-wearing is not theater because of the risk that vaccines did not protect against COVID-19 variants.
Now, Fauci admits that he continued to wear a mask indoors even though he was vaccinated and knew he didn't need to because he didn't want to send "mixed signals" to the American people, which appears to be the very definition of "theater."
Sen. Paul has not yet commented publicly on Fauci's remarks but he did share the following social media post from the Republican Party of Kentucky: " Two months TO THE DAY after Dr. @RandPaul said Dr. Fauci was performing 'theater' and wearing two masks 'for show' despite being vaccinated, Dr. Fauci finally admits it was, indeed, for show."Macy's has reportedly pulled all of model and activist Chrissy Teigen's cookware products from its line of offerings after she issued an apology for bullying a teenage celebrity.
The alleged abuse took place in 2011 and 2012 when model and reality star Courtney Stodden was just 16 years old.
Not the first store to drop the model's line
Target also reportedly dropped Teigen's line amid the controversy late last week.
On Thursday, Fox Business reported that Target opted to remove her cookware line.
"The retailer has pulled [Teigen's] Cravings cookware line from its website," Fox Business reported. "However, her trio of Cravings cookbooks remain available on the site."
In a statement, a Target spokesperson said, "We made the mutual decision in December to no longer carry the cookware line, given our continued focus on brands we develop and that can only be found at Target."
Target — though it has insisted that it dissolved the Teigen partnership as early as December — had Teigen's merchandise live for sale on its website as late as April 17, according to an internet archive search.
What are the details?
The New York Daily News on Monday reported that all of Teigen's products were inexplicably gone from Macy's website following a search.
"On Monday, a cursory search failed to turn up any results from Teigen's 'Cravings' line following Target removing the line from its website on Friday," the outlet reported.
The collection debuted at Macy's in 2020.
Indeed, an archive search found that at least 27 of Teigen's products appear to have been available up until Sunday before they were unceremoniously yanked from the store's inventory.
Macy's has yet to publicly comment on the reports at the time of this publication.
What else?
Over the last several months, Stodden — now 26 and who identifies as non-binary — has spoken out about Teigen's historical relentless bullying.
In one such instance, Teigen, who was in her mid-20s at the time, wrote, "@CourtneyStodden My Friday fantasy: you. dirt nap. mmmmmm baby."
In another instance, Teigen tweeted at the model and wrote, "Go. to sleep. forever."
Teigen also at one point tweeted, "@CourtneyStodden I hate you" and was said to have sent a private message to Stodden on social media advising suicide.
"[Teigen] wouldn't just publicly tweet about wanting me to take 'a dirt nap' but would privately DM me and tell me to kill myself," Stodden told the Daily Beast. "Things like, 'I can't wait for you to die.'"
Teigen's harassment and that of many others, Stodden told the outlet, came as the model and TV star faced media criticism for marrying 51-year-old Doug Hutchison in 2011 at the tender young age of 16.
Following the revelation, Teigen issued an apology to Stodden, which said, "Not a lot of people are lucky enough to be held accountable for all their past bulls**t in front of the entire world. I'm mortified and sad at who I used to be. I was an insecure, attention seeking troll. I am ashamed and completely embarrassed at my behavior."
"But that is nothing compared to how I made Courtney feel," Teigen continued. "I have worked so hard to give you guys joy and be beloved and the feeling of letting you down is nearly unbearable, truly. These were not my only mistakes and surely won't be my last as hard as I try but god I will try!!"
Teigen reportedly blocked Stodden on Twitter following the apology.
Stodden wrote, "I accept her apology and forgive her. But the truth remains the same, I have never heard from her or her camp in private. In fact, she blocked me on Twitter. All of me wants to believe this is a sincere apology, but it feels like a public attempt to save her partnerships with Target and other brands who are realizing her 'wokeness' is a broken record."A retired Navy pilot said recently that during his time in the armed forces encountering unidentified aerial phenomena was not a rare occurrence, but a typical feature of his everyday life.
Ryan Graves is one of the Navy pilots who famously filmed an unidentified flying object soaring off the coast of Jacksonville, Florida, in 2015. The videos, published in 2017 and 2018 by the New York Times and later authenticated by the U.S. Navy, initiated a wave of public interest and spawned congressional inquiry into such sightings.
But to Graves, that incredible encounter was not all that uncommon.
During an interview with CBS's "60 Minutes," which aired Sunday, Graves said that for him and some other Navy colleagues, spotting UFOs in the sky was something he experienced "every day for at least a couple years."
In fact, Graves "sounded almost bored" as he recounted his past experiences with UFOs to a national television audience, the Washington Post reported.
Nonetheless, his stunning statement prompted CBS correspondent Bill Whitaker to jump in, saying, "Wait a minute. Every day for a couple of years?"
"Mhmm," Graves responded.
Former Navy pilot says he regularly detected UFOs, calls them security risk youtu.be
In recent months, the Pentagon has confirmed several other leaked UFO videos as real — including a "pyramid-shaped" object hovering over a U.S. warship and a "spherical" object vanishing into the ocean off the coast of California, both recorded by the military in 2019.
In March, apparently reacting to information presented at a congressional hearing, Republican Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.) acknowledged to a reporter during an impromptu interview that there have been several instances of UFOs flying over U.S. military bases.
"There's stuff flying over military installations and no one knows what it is and it isn't ours," Rubio said.
He added that there may be a "logical explanation" for the phenomena, but at this point, nobody knows.
"Maybe it's another country, and that would be bad news, too," he said.
The American public will hopefully know more in six weeks when a U.S. national intelligence report is due which requires the government to disclose everything it knows about UFOs.
The report, expected to be released sometime in June, was mandated as part of last year's $2.3 trillion appropriations bill signed into law by former President Trump. Under the obscure provision, U.S. intelligence agencies along with the Pentagon were required to disclose all information on UFOs to the Senate Intelligence and Armed Services Committees within 180 days.Yet another Canadian pastor was arrested for violating a province's COVID-19 lockdown measures.
What are the details?
Calgary police arrested Pastor Tim Stephens outside Fairview Baptist Church after a late-morning Sunday service, the Calgary Herald reported.
Alberta Health Services said public health measures were violated, a prior warning had been issued, and Stephens had been fined multiple times for repeatedly breaking COVID-19 lockdown rules, the paper said.
Image source: YouTube screenshot
Stephens was charged with organizing an illegal in-person gathering, inciting or inviting others to meet illegally, and promoting an illegal gathering, the Herald added.
Image source: YouTube screenshot
Image source: YouTube screenshot
The paper said Stephens was released from custody Monday pending a civil contempt hearing next month — but AHS ordered the church closed.
The church and its members had been openly defying restrictions that most recently limit attendees to 15 people at a service, the Herald said, adding that the church's defiance angered neighbors.
The paper spoke to a neighbor who said he's been monitoring the church's behavior for months and is relieved by the arrest and church closure.
"It's heartening that after a long period of waiting and advocacy, the leadership is being held accountable and the facility is being shut," Ken Lima-Coelho told the Herald. "The last thing we need is a super-spreader in our neighborhood."
Lima-Coelho added to the paper that his 13-year-old daughter has been afraid of walking past the church.
What has the pastor been saying?
Stephens and other church leaders have said in-person services would continue regardless of consequences, the Herald reported, and that Fairview held services in an undisclosed location over the winter. The paper characterized such services as "clandestine."
Stephens wrote on the church's Facebook page that biblical teaching compels the congregation to meet in person, the Herald said.
"Our actions are not borne out of 'COVID fatigue' or simply having enough of the restrictions," he wrote, according to the paper. "Rather, our actions are borne out of theological commitments to the Lordship of Christ and his instruction to the church as revealed in scripture."
Stephens added that Fairview doesn't recognize the state's authority to intrude in church affairs, and he questions the medical necessity to limit worship, the Herald reported.
UPDATE: Lawyer says Pastor Tim Stephens unlawfully arrested under amended AHS order youtu.be
Anything else?
Another Canadian pastor, Artur Pawlowski, was arrested earlier this month for holding a church service in defiance of Alberta's public health orders.
Pawlowski made big headlines in April when a viral video showed him booting police and a health official from his church while calling them "gestapo."
Also in April, fences went up around GraceLife Church near Edmonton as police and health officials shut down the place of worship for failure to comply with COVID-19 mandates. Days later worshipers tore down the fences — only to be met reportedly by 200 police officers in riot gear sent to disperse the crowd.The United States Supreme Court unanimously ruled Monday that a so-called exception to the Fourth Amendment called "community caretaking" does not permit police officers to enter and search your home without first obtaining a search warrant, even if doing so may be in the public's interest.
What is the background?
The Supreme Court heard the case — Caniglia v. Strom — upon appeal by Edward Caniglia, a Rhode Island man whose house was searched by warrantless police officers in 2015. During that search, police seized two firearms, which Caniglia recovered only after jumping through numerous bureaucratic hoops.
Caniglia later sued law enforcement, arguing their actions violated his Fourth Amendment right against a warrantless search and seizure.
However, police claimed they acted lawfully under the "community caretaking" exception, which originated from Cady v. Dombrowski, a 1973 Supreme Court case that said police officers can conduct certain "community caretaking functions" if done in a "reasonable" manner. In that case, police officers had seized a gun located in an impounded car without a warrant.
The ruling overturned rulings by the federal district court and First Circuit Court of Appeals.
What did the high court say?
In a 9-0 ruling, the Supreme Court ruled the "community caretaking" exception does not apply to private residences.
"What is reasonable for vehicles is different from what is reasonable for homes. Cady acknowledged as much, and this Court has repeatedly 'declined to expand the scope of ... exceptions to the warrant requirement to permit warrantless entry into the home,'" Justice Clarence Thomas wrote in the majority opinion.
In fact, Thomas specifically rebuked the First Circuit Court of Appeals for extending the exception.
The First Circuit's "community caretaking" rule, however, goes beyond anything this Court has recognized. The decision below assumed that respondents lacked a warrant or consent, and it expressly disclaimed the possibility that they were reacting to a crime. The court also declined to consider whether any recognized exigent circumstances were present because respondents had forfeited the point.
Nor did it find that respondents' actions were akin to what a private citizen might have had authority to do if petitioner's wife had approached a neighbor for assistance instead of the police. Neither the holding nor logic of Cady justified that approach. True, Cady also involved a warrantless search for a firearm. But the location of that search was an impounded vehicle—not a home—"'a constitutional difference'" that the opinion repeatedly stressed. In fact, Cady expressly contrasted its treatment of a vehicle already under police control with a search of a car "parked adjacent to the dwelling place of the owner."
"But this recognition that police officers perform many civic tasks in modern society was just that—a recognition that these tasks exist, and not an open-ended license to perform them anywhere," Thomas added.
Anything else?
In rejecting the extension of the "community caretaking" exception to the Fourth Amendment, the Supreme Court rejected an argument from the Biden administration, which had urged the court to uphold as legal the violation of Caniglia's constitutional rights.
An amicus brief filed by Justice Department lawyers said:
The touchstone of the Fourth Amendment is reasonableness. For criminal investigations, this Court has generally incorporated the Warrant Clause into the Fourth Amendment's overarching reasonableness requirement, but it has not generally done so for searches or seizures objectively premised on justifications other than the investigation of wrongdoing. The ultimate question in this case is therefore not whether the respondent officers' actions fit within some narrow warrant exception, but instead whether those actions were reasonable. And under all of the circumstances here, they were.
The brief further argued that warrants should not be "presumptively required when a government official's action is objectively grounded in a non-investigatory public interest, such as health or safety."
The Justice Department, in fact, was so keen on the Supreme Court not ruling in Caniglia's favor that they urged the court to uphold the officers' actions "by concluding that the officers are entitled to qualified immunity" if they rejected the Fourth Amendment argument.An unnamed "good guy with a gun" put a stop to what could have been a horrific mass killing over the weekend by using his own weapon to gun down a massacre suspect, KFSM-TV reported.
What are the details?
Authorities said an armed 26-year-old Zachary Arnold, a resident at the Fort Smith, Arkansas, apartment complex where the event occurred, was outside his building Saturday morning when he began screaming for residents to come outside.
Arnold, who was armed with a rifle, was first met by an elderly neighbor, 87-year-old Lois Hicks.
One neighbor told the station that Hicks and another elderly woman came out to "console" Arnold when he opened fire.
"There were two older women, both had come out," the neighbor explained. "One of them had ran back in, and the other one ran back in, but she didn't close her door, then he walked in and did what he did."
After fatally shooting Hicks, authorities said, Arnold continued to fire rounds from his rifle and tried to persuade other residents to come out of their homes.
Another neighbor told the station, "He was yelling and screaming, 'You guys get out here, come out here, everyone get out of this building right now!'"
One neighbor, who remains unnamed at the time of this reporting, grabbed his own rifle and bravely exited his apartment to put a stop to the mayhem. The male neighbor fatally shot Arnold, immediately ending the would-be mass killing.
A resident told the station, "If he didn't do that, who knows how much worse it could have gotten."
It currently remains unknown what prompted Arnold to storm his own apartment complex, and the incident remains under investigation. It is unclear whether the unnamed good Samaritan will face charges in connection with the shooting.
No other residents were injured, and KARK-TV reported that the Fort Smith Police Department said they will submit a completed case file to the Sebastian County prosecuting attorney's office for review.
What else?
Dixie Property Management issued a statement on the killing and said, “We are terribly saddened by the incident which happened this morning. We are working diligently with the police in any way we can. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families today."
FSPD public information officer Aric Mitchell told KNWA-TV that the department is grieving with the rest of the community.
"Our hearts and prayers are with everyone affected by today's events," Mitchell told the station. "We will release additional information when appropriate and at the conclusion of our investigation."A hunting guide accused of assaulting a police officer during the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol has been placed on house arrest by a judge, over allegations that he violated the terms of his release by allegedly shooting a mountain lion while under court orders.
Patrick Montgomery, 48, is not supposed to have a gun at all because of prior felony charges, prosecutors say.
What are the details?
Montgomery runs a guide service called Pmonte Outdoors out of Littleton, Colorado. In January, he was indicted on 10 counts after allegedly entering the Capitol building and "kicking a police officer in the chest and trying to take his baton during riots," The Denver Gazette reported, citing court documents.
"Montgomery has no respect for the Court's orders, just like he had no respect for law enforcement at the Capitol on January 6," acting United States Attorney Channing Phillips wrote in court documents.
"Instead of peacefully protesting, he tried to grab a Metropolitan Police Department officer's baton, wrestled him to the ground for it, and then kicked the officer in the chest while wearing a boot," Phillips claims. "After the officer regained control of his baton, Montgomery stood up, and held up his two middle fingers at the officer. "
CBS News reported that since Montgomery's arrest, he has been free on pre-trial release, but prosecutors pressed Monday for him to be placed under house arrest over allegations that he violated the stipulation that he not "possess illegal firearms." The judge agreed.
The house arrest was sparked by a mountain lion hunt of which the U.S. Attorney's Office supplied a picture purportedly showing Montgomery on March 31 holding up a mountain lion kill.
Anything else?
Montgomery allegedly told an officer at a park that he had killed the animal with a .357 magnum handgun. After running a background check, the officer found that Montgomery was convicted of three counts of felony robbery from 1996.
But this was not the first time Montgomery violated his release, according to prosecutors who say he also "illegally hunted a bobcat in January, allegedly using a slingshot to knock it out of a tree and then allowed his dogs to kill it in violation of state law," ABC News reported.
When confronted about the past convictions, Montgomery "said he was granted a plea agreement that allowed him possession of firearms for the purposes of hunting and guiding," CBS reported.President Joe Biden on Monday warned Americans that those who refuse to get vaccinated will ultimately "end up paying the price" for not doing so.
The threat did not resonate with everyone.
What are the details?
Fox News reported Biden declared during a news conference that COVID-19 cases "are down in all 50 states" and announced that the U.S. would now send more coronavirus vaccines to other countries.
After noting that COVID-19 deaths are down 81% in the U.S. from a year ago, the president said, "I can't promise that will continue this way. We know there will be advances and setbacks and we know that flareups could occur. But if the unvaccinated get vaccinated, they'll protect themselves and other unvaccinated people around them.
"If they do not," he continued, "states with low vaccination rates may see those rates go up, may see this progress, reversed.
"Ultimately, those who are not vaccinated will end up paying the price," he added. "The vaccinated will continue to be protected against severe illnesses, but others may not be if you're not vaccinated."
What was the reaction online?
Reactions to Biden's message on Twitter were mixed.
"Im getting the vax but imma be real this makes me not want to lmao," one person wrote.
Someone else tweeted, "If trump had said this, there'd have been cries for impeachment and tyranny. I'm not saying you gotta be a trump person, or a biden person. But at least recognize the hypocrisy and pavlovian conditioning the media is putting you through."
One person reasoned, "I've come down with COVD, and have fully recovered since then. I see no reason to take the vaccine, especially when it's the least deadly outbreak compared to others spanning 200 years, and segregating vaccinated from non-vaccinated is a violation of their Constitutional rights."
Yet, some praised the president's comments. One person tweeted, "I still don't see how anyone is even the slight bit skeptical, look at India right now and tell me you'd rather just not get the vax because some Facebook post said they're putting tracking chips in the vax, like they track us already we always have our cellphones with us so what."
A second wrote, "he's 100% right!!!!!!!!!!"
Another replied, "That's why I say make it mandatory. He's right on this that's the price."Chicago is seeing a carjacking crisis and the latest suspect arrested was an 11-year-old boy who allegedly aided in the beating of a 59-year-old white man.
Chicago police said that the boy and a 19-year-old man walked up to the victim on Saturday and punched him in the face so forcefully that his orbital bone was fractured.
The man was placing something in the trunk of his car when he was beaten in the Buena Park neighborhood.
Police said they were able to locate the stolen car through the use of a license plate reader two hours later. When police gave chase, the car crashed into a metal fence. The man and the 11-year-old were eventually arrested.
Police have noted a rise in carjacking incidents where juveniles as young as 10 years old have been recruited into the crime by older suspects. They would not say whether this was one of those cases.
"I don't have any specific information as to whether that 11-year-old was recruited," said Brendan Deenihan, the Chicago Police Chief of Detectives.
"He's with a 19-year-old. I'm not going to talk about his cognitive behavior, but he was with a 19-year-old when it happened," added Deenihan.
A Cook County judge denied the bail of the older suspect and chastised him for not fulfilling his responsibility to help the younger man stay on the straight and narrow path.
"The example you set on that date was not one of good," the judge said. "It was one of malice."
WBBM-TV investigators said that carjackings — 543 — had doubled in 2021 compared to the same period from 2020. Also, the station reported that in 2020, there were nine reports of an adult being arrested with a juvenile for carjacking. So far in 2021 there have been at least five.
Here's a local news report about the incident:Climate activist Greta Thunberg lashed out at U.S. special climate envoy John Kerry over his latest suggestion about combatting global warming.
Kerry simply suggested that technological advancements will play a key role in lessening carbon emissions in an interview with BBC that aired on Sunday.
"I am told by scientists, not by anybody in politics but by scientists, that 50% of the reductions we have to make to get to net zero by 2050 or 2045, as soon as we can, 50% of those reductions are going to come from technologies that we don't yet have," Kerry said.
"That's just a reality," he added. "And people who are realistic about this understand that's part of the challenge."
Kerry, 77, was arguing that Americans won't necessarily need to drastically change their lifestyle in order to curb emissions because of expected advancements by tech companies.
Thunberg took to Twitter to ridicule Kerry and characterize his argument as one of pure fantasy.
"Great news! I spoke to Harry Potter and he said he will team up with Gandalf, Sherlock Holmes & The Avengers and get started right away!" she mocked.
She also retweeted a response to Kerry from climate scientist Michael Mann.
"This is one trial balloon that needs to be popped," he tweeted with a link to Kerry's comments.
Mann went on to accuse Kerry of participating in "pernicious technophilia" that had "infected" public discourse and blamed Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates for popularizing the idea that technological advances offered hope to lessen carbon emissions.
Despite his misgivings, Mann praised the Biden administration for their global warming policies in his own interview with BBC News.
Kerry defended his comments to Axios by referring to a finding from the International Energy Agency.
"IEA analysis shows that about half the reductions to get to net zero emissions in 2050 will need to come from technologies that are not yet ready for market," said IEA chief Fatih Birol in April.
Here's more about Biden's carbon emissions promises:Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott (D) announced Monday that despite last week's CDC guidance stating vaccinated individuals can ditch masks pretty much everywhere, his city will be an exception.
The city is keeping mandates in place indoors and at outdoor venues. But Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R) told reporters he was surprised by Scott's actions since he saw the mayor in public without a mask twice just last week.
What are the details?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention declared last week that fully vaccinated Americans can return to life without masks both outdoors and indoors with a few exceptions like medical facilities, businesses that require them, or on airliners. But some Democratic politicians are not following the science in accordance with CDC guidance, opting to keep their mask mandates in place.
On Monday, Mayor Scott and Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Letitia Dzirasa held a news conference to inform residents that the city's mask mandates would remain in place until further notice, WBAL-TV reported.
Scott said that the mandate would stay until 65% of adults have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. The city is currently is at 42%.
"In order for us to get to that 65% quicker, folks need to get vaccinated," Scott reiterated before coaxing residents. "So if you want that mask mandate to go away, get vaccinated."
When asked by WBFF-TV about Scott's decision, Gov. Hogan shrugged and said, "Just doesn't make any sense to me, but you know I think the mayor might have that authority to do that."
Then the governor said of Scott, "You know, I saw him at the Preakness and at an event on Thursday night — both indoors — neither time with a mask. So, if he's not going to do it, then he shouldn't tell other people to do it."
Hogan lifted Maryland's statewide mask mandate on Saturday in light of the CDC's guidance.A new study says that tech companies that displayed public support for the Black Lives Matter movement also had fewer black employees than other tech companies that did not express support for the movement.
The study of 240 prominent tech companies was conducted by Blendoor, a startup that advocates for greater minority representation, and published Monday.
The study found that the pro-BLM companies had 20% fewer black employees than those who did not express support for the movement.
Despite the disparity between outward support and actual hiring practices, the report said support for Black Lives Matter led to billions in donations that would have an even greater impact on obtaining the goals of the movement.
The website for the Black Lives Matter movement posted a new set of demands earlier in May that included a permanent ban on former President Donald Trump from holding any future political office and from all social media platforms. They also demanded that he be "immediately convicted" in the U.S. Senate.
One software company that took the opposite stance was Basecamp, where a number of employees quit after the leadership banned political talk from their official business channels in order to keep their focus on work. A third of their employees reportedly quit because of the controversy.
The BLM movement also got a boost from former first lady Michelle Obama, who said that blacks in America are still afraid for their lives and the lives of their children.
"Many of us still live in fear as we go to the grocery store, or worry about — walking our dogs, or allowing our children to get a license," Obama said in an interview with Gayle King of CBS News.
However, even many on the left are blaming the extremist policy demands of the BLM movement for some of the loss in support for Democrats among some Hispanics who refused to back their demands to defund the police.
Here's more about the Black Lives Matter movement:As Hamas ruthlessly targets Israel's major population centers with a hailstorm of rockets, the world is witnessing a military miracle: Israel's anti-missile system known as the Iron Dome.
On "LevinTV" this week, Mark Levin shared a little-known story of the Iron Dome's development, from Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative to the Patriot Missile System.
Co-developed by Israel and the U.S., Israel has created a defensive masterpiece, but as Levin warned, there are those within the Democrat Party that seek to cut off the aid to Israel necessary to continue development of these defensive systems.
Watch the video below for more from Mark Levin:
Want more from Mark Levin?
To enjoy more of "the Great One" — Mark Levin as you've never seen him before — subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Scandal-plagued New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) is set to make $5.1 million from his book, "American Crisis: Leadership Lessons form the Covid-19 Pandemic," and has already pocketed $3.12 million from the deal struck during the thick of the pandemic.
Most of the funds he's received so far have been funneled to his daughters' trust fund.
What are the details?
The New York Times reported the governor disclosed his income from 2020 showing the $3.12 million, and state officials explained that the publisher, Crown, agreed to pay the governor another $2 million over the next two years.
However, the newspaper called the book a "minefield" for Cuomo and Crown, who canceled promotions of the memoir months ago as scandals against the governor grew. The publisher did not immediately respond to The Times' question of whether they would still pay out the remainder of the governor's advance.
The book was published in mid-October "as the public health crisis raged," the New York Post noted, in a deal made by Cuomo "despite his administration being accused of sending COVID-positive patients back into nursing homes." The Cuomo administration was also accused of underreporting fatalities from the facilities over concerns about political fallout, which could also impact book sales.
Cuomo spokesman Richard Azzopardi told the Times that the governor received $1,537,508 in net proceeds after expenses and taxes for the book deal in 2020.
"From that net income, the governor donated a third to the United Way of New York State for statewide Covid relief and vaccination effort, and is giving the remainder in a trust for his three daughters equally," Azzopardi said in a statement.
Anything else?
The Daily Caller reported that "Cuomo's office had previously said the governor would donate a 'significant portion' of his book earnings to a COVID-related charity." Azzopardi did not immediately respond to the outlet's request for explanation on why the majority went to Cuomo's adult daughters.
New York Attorney General Letitia James (D) opened an investigation on whether Cuomo used state resources on his book, following reports that staffers from the governor's office assisted in promoting his memoir.
James is also investigating several sexual harassment and misconduct claims against Cuomo, who has refused to step down despite several Republicans and fellow Democrats calling for him to do so.A 4-year-old boy was found violently murdered and police have arrested an 18-year-old suspect who might have been caught on video kidnapping the victim.
The disturbing incident unfolded Saturday morning in Dallas when a jogger found the boy's body in the middle of a street.
Dallas police said the matter is being investigated as a murder.
Investigators initially said they believed a "single individual" killed the boy with an "edged weapon" based on the condition of the body.
The woman who said she found the body of the child spoke to KTVT-TV about what happened. She said that she went out to jog that morning because it was such a beautiful day outside. She said she was startled to see the boy lying in the street and called 911.
"That image that I saw, I just can't erase it. To see a child covered in blood in the middle of the street, it's truly traumatizing," said the woman, who added that the boy wasn't wearing a shirt or shoes.
By Saturday evening, police confirmed that they had a suspect in custody, and later identified him as 18-year-old Darriynn Brown.
Brown was initially charged with kidnapping and theft, but officials said they expect to add more charges pending their investigation and forensic analysis.
A woman, who identified herself as the boy's mother to WFAA, told the station that his name was Cash Gernon and claimed that he had been sleeping when he was kidnapped. Police said that the woman was the boy's guardian.
She said that the boy had a twin brother who is in the custody of the state. She also said that she has no idea why Brown allegedly killed the boy, and claimed that they had no prior relationship.
Residents told WFAA that they would see Brown walking through the neighborhood. Court records showed that he lived about a half-mile away from the crime scene with his parents.
"Hard to believe. I don't think he was in his right mind," said one resident named Jose Ramirez.
The boy's guardian claimed that Brown was caught on surveillance video breaking into the back of the home.
Brown was held on a bond of $750,000 for each charge. His mother told KTVT that Brown was innocent and had been framed by the real killer of the child, whom she suspected to be part of his family.
Here's more about the incident:NBA superstar Kyrie Irving is getting paid north of $33 million to play for the Brooklyn Nets this season.
And with fellow superstar teammates James Harden and Kevin Durant also making a killing in the hopes of taking the Nets all the way to the NBA championship next month, one might think the Brooklyn brass is assuming Irving has his game in the forefront of his mind.
If only.
What is more important than basketball right now to Irving?
After the Nets' 105-91 win over the Chicago Bulls on Saturday, Irving said basketball wasn't quite hitting his radar at the moment, ESPN reported. Irving scored 22 points in the Nets' win.
"I'm not going to lie to you guys, a lot of stuff is going on in this world, and basketball is just not the most important thing to me right now," he told reporters, according to the sports network. "There's a lot of things going on overseas. All our people are still in bondage across the world, and there's a lot of dehumanization going on.
"So I apologize if I'm not going to be focused on y'all's questions. It's just too much going on in the world for me to just be talking about basketball," Irving added. "I focus on this most of the time, 24/7, but it's just too much going on in this world not to address. It's just sad to see this s**t going on. It's not just in Palestine, not just in Israel. It's all over the world, and I feel it. I'm very compassionate to it — to all races, all cultures, and to see ... a lot of people being discriminated against based on their religion, color of their skin, what they believe in. It's just sad," ESPN said.
The sports network said the Nets superstar made "multiple references to the ongoing violence" between Israelis and Hamas during his chat with the media.
"I don't care which way you stand on — either side," Irving said, according to ESPN. "If you're a human being, then you support the anti-war effort. There's a lot of people losing their lives — children, a lot of babies, and that's just what I'm focused on. So if you guys want to ask me questions about the game, I really don't care about it except for everyone leaving the game healthy and being able to go home to their families."
On Sunday, the Nets (48-24) clinched the No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference with a 123-109 win over the Cleveland Cavaliers, the sports network said.
Here are ESPN's Stephen A. Smith and Max Kellerman reacting to Irving's comments:
Stephen A. and Max react to Kyrie Irving saying he is focused on issues other than basketball youtu.be
Anything else?
The sports network said Irving was fined earlier this month for violating the NBA's media access rules — and was asked Saturday about maintaining a balance between basketball and social issues important to him.
"It's a job," Irving replied, according to ESPN. "I was raised as a survivor. My family comes from practically the bottom in the South Bronx. They came out of some extreme conditions. I'm the product of a lot of sacrifice. ... It's a unique balance because you're on a platform or industry that — a lot of people that are around it or surviving it don't really get a chance to say what they believe in, or they have to play it safe, or they have to worry about money, or they have to worry about what people are saying. I just think you can't be afraid to say what you believe in. It's not about consuming information or trying to be right or politically correct. It's about doing what God intends us all to do — that's to stand on the good word of treating everyone with respect, compassion and love."The Biden administration will not require beneficiaries of a massive federal emergency housing initiative to prove that they are legal residents of the country, Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Marcia Fudge announced Monday.
The department announced last month that it would dole out $5 billion in American Rescue Plan funds to help communities address homelessness by providing affordable housing and services. But the funds will not be specially earmarked for American citizens or otherwise legal residents; rather, illegal aliens may soon benefit from the money as well.
According to the Washington Times, when asked if the administration would implement a policy similar to one pursued under former President Trump to make sure only American citizens receive housing aid, Fudge replied, "The answer is no."
"We are doing everything we can possibly to take any living person in this nation off the streets," she reportedly added. "That's kind of our posture."
The news is sure to spark criticism from conservatives especially amid the ongoing immigration crisis as unprecedented numbers of migrants surge into the country illegally in expectation of lenient treatment from the new administration under President Joe Biden. As a result of the crisis, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants have reportedly been released directly into the country, presumably without court dates.
In 2019, during Trump's presidency, then-HUD Secretary Ben Carson proposed tightening regulations to prevent illegal immigrants from receiving federally subsidized housing aid.
At the time, Carson argued the federal government needed to "make certain our scarce public resources help those who are legally entitled to it.
"Given the overwhelming demand for our programs, fairness requires that we devote ourselves to legal residents who have been waiting, some for many years, for access to affordable housing," he added, according to the Washington Post.
That same sentiment, however, is not shared by officials within the Biden administration.
In a follow-up news release issued on Monday, Fudge announced that her department plans to send 70,000 housing choice vouchers to at least 750 local public housing authorities across the country. The initiative aims to provide some 130,000 households with safe, quality housing.
"While most of us spent more time in our homes than we ever have, more than half a million Americans had to spend the last year either in crowded shelters or sleeping outside," Fudge said in a statement. "With HUD's swift allocation of this $5 billion in American Rescue Plan funding, we are providing communities the resources to give homes to the people who have had to endure the COVID-19 pandemic without one."The United States Army published a bulletin last week revealing what the military branch considers a grave threat that may jeopardize U.S. national security: climate change.
What are the details?
The document — published by the assistant secretary of the Army for installations, energy and environment — claims "climate change is a serious threat to U.S. National security interests and defense objectives."
"Warming temperatures open new theaters of operations for military and commercial use, while extreme weather events and rising sea levels threaten infrastructure and economic output, trigger large-scale population displacement, migration and exacerbate food and water insecurity," the bulletin claims.
Because of these alleged threats, the Army will now be "prioritizing climate change" in strategic defense plans. The new focus appears to be directly related to President Joe Biden's agenda, which emphasizes addressing climate change threats.
The Defense Department, in fact, has already established the "Department of Defense Climate Working Group," a new office that will coordinate the Defense Department's ongoing response to climate change.
Joe Bryan, the leader of the new working group, said last month:
It's really an exciting time in which we're seeing our defense requirements and our mission requirements align exceptionally well with some climate-friendly solutions. And I think the commercial sector is moving there faster than we can possibly imagine, and we have an opportunity to take advantage of that and improve our own capability and competitiveness.
Anything else?
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin fully supports Biden's emphasis on climate change.
Last month, Austin said that "climate change is making the world more unsafe and we need to act."
"Today, no nation can find lasting security without addressing the climate crisis. We face all kinds of threats in our line of work, but few of them truly deserve to be called existential. The climate crisis does," Austin said.
In his statement, Austin intertwined military readiness with "energy efficiency."
"We in the Department of Defense are committed to doing our part, from increasing the energy efficiency of our platforms and installations, to deploying clean distributed generation and energy storage, to electrifying our own vehicle fleets," Austin said. "The benefits of action extend well beyond the climate, and include opportunities to improve our own operations. For example, when we operate more sustainably, we become more logistically agile and ready to respond to crises."Former Surgeon General Dr. Jerome Adams blasted the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention after he said they "fumbled the ball at the 1-yard-line" in handling mask guidance for Americans.
Adams served under the Trump administration from 2017 until former President Donald Trump left office in January.
What are the details?
Adams said that he agreed with the plan of eliminating the need for masks in fully vaccinated Americans, but the execution was subpar to say the least.
During a Monday appearance on CNN's "New Day," Adams said, "I think this was an appropriate call based on the science. I think the play call was right, but they fumbled the ball at the one-yard line in terms of communicating this to the public."
Adams also said that CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky's announcement left those people working in public health "blindsided."
“I think you miss the nuance about protecting yourself versus protecting an organization," Adams explained. “It was a little bit of whiplash for the American public in terms of them saying just a week before, 'Keep your mask on' and then all of sudden they're saying, 'Now you can take them off.'"
What else?
In Thursday remarks made in a White House press briefing, Walensky said, “Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities — large or small — without wearing a mask or physically distancing. If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic."
Walensky's announcement came just one day after she addressed Congress and told them that masks were still necessary for Americans — vaccinated or not.
Walensky told Fox News' Chris Wallace on Sunday that the organization is "getting data, evolving data, on the science."
"It certainly would have been easier if this science had evolved a week earlier and I didn't have to go to Congress making this statement," Walensky admitted. "But I'm delivering the science ... and you know, it evolved over this last week.
“And so taking all of these data together, we've been working really actively just this whole last week to try and move the science, move the data, to the American people and tell people — deliver the science to them," she added.The U.S. Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention clarified over the weekend that its new guidance on mask-wearing does not apply to American schools, which should continue to mandate masks for kids and social distancing through the end of the current school year.
Last week, the CDC said that Americans who've been vaccinated against COVID-19 no longer need to wear face coverings indoors or outdoors because they've been protected from the virus and will not get sick. But K-12 schools should continue to impose mask-wearing through the end of the 2020-21 school year, the CDC said Saturday.
"Our school guidance to complete the school year will not change," CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky told Fox News on Sunday. She also said the agency will update its school guidance for the fall sometime during summer break.
"We need to update our school guidance, child care guidance, travel guidance — we have a lot of work that we need to do, " Walensky said. "We are actively working on that now."
She also said on CNN that the CDC will not be changing its guidance on mask-wearing in schools because "most kids will not be vaccinated or fully vaccinated before the end of this year."
The FDA has only authorized the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for children ages 12-17. Any adolescents who get their first shot now will not be fully vaccinated by the end of the current school year in most states since the Pfizer shot requires a three-week break between doses and another two-week buffer after the second shot for people to gain full protection.
According to the New York Times' vaccine tracker, nearly 157.1 million people in the United States have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, including 123 million people who have received both shots and are fully vaccinated.
Biden administration health officials like Dr. Anthony Fauci say it's "very important" for children to be vaccinated against COVID-19, noting that there are rare but serious cases of children contracting the virus and experiencing long-term symptoms for weeks or months after infection. But parents remain hesitant to have their children receive the vaccine.
According to one survey, about 1 in 5 U.S. parents say they will definitely not have their 12-15-year-olds vaccinated even though they are eligible to receive the Pfizer shot.
Children younger than 12 are not yet approved for any coronavirus vaccine.
Pfizer and Moderna are each currently conducting trials for their vaccines in children as young as 6 months old.Jury selection began Monday for the trial of Cristhian Bahena Rivera, an illegal immigrant who is accused of murdering 20-year-old University of Iowa student Mollie Tibbetts.
The high-profile trial is scheduled to begin Wednesday at the Scott County Courthouse in Davenport, Iowa. WQAD-TV reported that the proceedings will be streamed online at WeAreIowa.com, the We Are Iowa app or the We Are Iowa YouTube channel.
Tibbetts went missing on July 18, 2018, after she went for a jog in her hometown of Brooklyn, Iowa, and never came back. The efforts of her family, friends, and law enforcement to find her captured national media attention, including that of the White House after then-Vice President Mike Pence commented on the case during an event in Iowa.
"I just want Mollie's family to know: You're on the hearts of every American," Pence said during an event on Aug. 15, 2018.
A month after she disappeared, her body was found in a cornfield outside Brooklyn. Surveillance footage showed a car police connected to 24-year-old Mexican immigrant Bahena Rivera near the area Tibbetts took her jog. Police interrogated Bahena Rivera and then charged him with first-degree murder after he led investigators to her body.
Police say that after interrogation Bahena Rivera told them he followed Tibbetts in his car while she was jogging in town on July 18 and then got out of his car and started running behind her. He allegedly said that he became angry when she threatened to call the police and "blocked his memory" of what happened next.
The criminal complaint filed by police stated that Bahena Rivera confessed to blacking out during an altercation with Tibbetts and that he later woke up at an intersection in Poweshiek County, realizing that he had put Tibbetts into the trunk of his car.
From the criminal complaint:
Rivera stated he then made a u-turn, drove back to an entrance to a field and then drove into a driveway to a cornfield. He noticed there was an earpiece from headphones in his lap and that is how he realized he put her in the trunk. He went to get her out of the trunk and he noticed blood on the side of her head. The Defendant Rivera described the female's clothing, that she was wearing an ear phone or headphone set. The defendant further described during the interview that he dragged Tibbetts on foot from his vehicle to a secluded location in a cornfield. Rivera described he put her over his shoulder and took her about 20 meters into the cornfield and he left her covered in some corn leaves and that he left her there, face up. The Defendant was able to use his phone to determine the route he traveled from Brooklyn. Rivera then later guided law enforcement to her location from memory. Law enforcement located the remains of a deceased female in the area Rivera took them to. The physical surroundings of her location and other factors at the scene matched his earlier physical description of the area as that where he placed her body.
Bahena Rivera pleaded not guilty to Tibbetts' murder.
Federal authorities say Bahena Rivera was in the U.S. illegally and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement filed a detainer to prevent his release after he was arrested.
In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections, former President Donald Trump and other Republicans frequently cited Bahena Rivera's immigration status and Tibbetts' murder in making arguments for border security and tough-on-crime policies.A nonprofit organization made up of lawyers and researchers seeking to uncover corruption in the U.S. government just launched a new ad going after President Joe Biden and his Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for ignoring science and instead kowtowing to teachers' unions and keeping schools closed.
The ad goes after the administration and the CDC for working with the American Federation of Teachers in the shadows to keep kids out of school — all "to pay back liberal dark money groups."
What does the ad say?
Americans for Public Trust announced a $1 million ad campaign "calling out" President Biden, "the dark money president," and the CDC after it was revealed that the agency charged with fighting for Americans' health interests was instead collaborating with the AFT to block school reopenings.
The New York Post, citing damning unearthed emails, revealed in early May that the AFT, the nation's second-largest teachers' union, successfully lobbied the CDC not to recommend earlier this year that schools could fully reopen safely. The emails were provided to the Post by Americans for Public Trust, which had received the emails via a Freedom of Information Act request.
As previously reported, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky repeatedly insisted that the agency's guidance on schools was "free from political meddling."
Also complicating matters over the scandal is the fact that the AFT donated nearly $20 million to Democrats in the 2020 election cycle.
This incident prompted House Republicans to push for an investigation into what happened and demand to know why "the CDC has been taking its cues from teachers' unions instead of following the science."
The donations coupled with the AFT-influenced CDC guidance led leadership at Americans for Public Trust to shoot a new ad challenging the Biden White House's efforts to pay back liberal dark-money donors.
"We know schools are safe, but Biden and his CDC secretly worked with the teachers' unions to keep schools closed," the ad begins, following clips of the president urging Americans to "listen to the scientists."
The ad says Biden's CDC is guilty of "sacrificing kids, keeping them out of school to pay back liberal dark-money groups."
"Teachers' unions gave him a record amount of money," the voice-over says.
"Science? No," the ad concludes. "With Biden it's always about dark money."
Science www.youtube.com
(H/T: Townhall)An Arizona mother charged with murdering her two young children reportedly told police she heard voices in her head telling her to commit the heinous crime.
What happened?
The mother, 40-year-old Yui Inoue of Tempe, Arizona, was arrested and charged with two counts of first-degree murder on Sunday after her 9-year-old daughter and 7-year-old son were found dead in the family's apartment, the Arizona Republic reported.
According to the news outlet, Tempe Police Sergeant Steve Carbajal said authorities first became aware of the situation after Inoue flagged down officers at a nearby department substation and led them to the apartment, where the children's bodies were discovered. She reportedly told police at the time that she had heard voices telling her to kill her children.
Carbajal said there were "obvious signs of physical trauma" at the scene. Citing a police statement, he Arizona Republic noted that officers found large amounts of blood at the house and that the children sustained what appeared to be self-defense wounds, "including cuts from a sharp object and some amputations."
During an interview, Inoue reportedly told detectives that she had been in an argument with the children's father over finances the previous night. She claimed that after he left, she went to sleep with the two children, but then woke up at around 4:30 a.m. with blood on her hands and arms.
Inoue reportedly claimed she didn't believe she had killed the children, but couldn't remember. She explained that after she took a bath that morning she suddenly "woke up" to the situation and decided to alert the police.
What else?
The argument that Inoue described evidently had been so intense that police responded to the apartment following reports of a domestic dispute. But Carbajal said that incident didn't result in any arrests, since the parents agreed to separate and the two kids were safely in their beds when officers left. They had no idea of the atrocity that would occur only hours later.
"At that time everything seemed to be OK. There was no immediate information that something like this would happen," Carbajal said, noting that the father had reportedly gone to go sleep at his office. The father, who is not a suspect in the crime, reportedly broke down crying when he learned his two young children were dead.
Police said that the two parents were reportedly in the process of getting a divorce.
Mom arrested after her 2 kids found murdered in Tempe www.youtube.com
The horrific crime has reportedly taken a toll on officers as well as neighbors of the family.
"We have a lot of officers right now that are struggling," Carbajal said. "Just me talking to you right now, just kind of thinking what they went through is something we can't even put into words right now."
One neighbor recalled that she had recently seen the two children playing in the apartment complex's pool a couple times with their mom present.
"They were happy, beautiful children," she recalled. "It's been heavy on a lot of our hearts here. A lot of people are really confused about what happened. A lot of us heard screaming. It's been scary."Oklahoma Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt signed a bill earlier this month prohibiting his state's public-school teachers and administrators from teaching and implementing critical race theory that says American society is inherently racist and designed to perpetuate discrimination.
Now, because of his move to enact the law, NBC News said, Gov. Stitt has been booted from a state-backed commission set up to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre of 1921, the single worst incident of racial violence in U.S. history.
Last week, Phil Armstrong, director of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission, said he sent a letter to Stitt sharing the commission's disappointment that the governor not only signed the bill into law but also did not join the commission for a special meeting to discuss the new law.
The ban, according to its chief sponsor, state Rep. Kevin West (R), does not "stop the teaching of history or anything currently in our Oklahoma education standards, including curriculum that shows historical examples of racism or genocide," KJRH-TV reported. “This bill simply says that teachers can't force a student to answer that they are inherently racist or sexist or that they must feel personally responsible for things perpetrated in the past by people of a similar race or gender."
The bill's proponents repeatedly said the bill would in no way preclude teaching about the Tulsa massacre.
But according to Armstrong and the rest of the commission, the new law will impact teaching on the horrific event by blocking any "exploration of the underlying causative factors" and therefore "chills the ability of educators to teach students."
Armstrong and his team also had a real problem with Stitt saying a ban on critical race theory was justified because the state's policies should bring Oklahomans together, "not rip us apart." Stitt argued that the new law "encourages honest and tough conversations" by making Martin Luther King Jr.'s concepts part of state code.
"How does this law bring us together and codify the concepts of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.?" Armstrong asked. "How do you reconcile your membership on the Centennial Commission with your support of a law that is fundamentally contrary to the mission of reconciliation and restoration?"
The commission's letter concluded by saying that Stitt's signing of the bill shows that he doesn't really want to be a part of the group and told the governor that if he didn't respond, they would consider that "as a further disavowal of the stated goals of the Centennial Commission and an official resignation from its membership."
Apparently, Stitt didn't respond, because the commission said in a new statement that it "agreed through consensus to part ways with Governor Stitt," NBC News reported.
The group added that that though it "is disheartened to part ways with Governor Stitt, we are thankful for the things accomplished together," adding, "No elected officials, nor representatives of elected officials, were involved in this decision," according to NBC News.
The governor's office told the outlet that Stitt didn't know about his ouster until the commission issued its statement.
Stitt spokeswoman Carly Atchison said the governor's role "has been purely ceremonial and he had not been invited to attend a meeting until this week."At the hearing last week during which U.S. Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) grilled Dr. Anthony Fauci over "gain of function research" in relation to the COVID-19 virus, another rather eye-opening exchange took place but wasn't widely reported.
What are the details?
Toward the end of the nearly three-hour hearing last Tuesday before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, ranking member U.S. Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) asked Fauci what percentage of employees at the National Institutes of Health have received the COVID-19 vaccine.
"What percentage of the employees in your institute ... has been vaccinated?" Burr asked.
Fauci replied, "You know, I'm not 100% sure, senator, but I think it's probably a little bit more than half — probably around 60%."
Burr asked the same question of Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Dr. Peter Marks, director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research at the Food and Drug Administration.
Marks replied, "I can't tell you the exact number, but it's probably in the same range — some people vaccinated at our facility and others ... outside of the facility."
Walensky told Burr that at the CDC, "we're encouraging our employees to get vaccinated, we've been doing town halls and education seminars ... our staff have the option to report their vaccination status, but as you understand, the federal government is not requiring it, so we do not know."
Uh oh
With that, Burr mildly scolded the trio sitting before him: "Listen, you're the face of why people should get vaccinated. And knowing and promoting and confidently giving numbers, percentages. ... Imagine being the parent of a school-age kid who for generations has been required to have their kids vaccinated before they could start school? And the fact that even within our health organizations we can't require that of people ... we're gonna have tough decisions to make."
Burr soon warned Fauci, Marks, and Walensky that "if we're gonna get that last mile coverage, we're gonna have to start portraying that we're willing to do to ourselves what we're asking the American people to do."
WATCH LIVE: Fauci, federal health officials testify about ongoing efforts to combat COVID-19 youtu.be
Anything else?
The momentous Q&A moment came in the wake of recent headline-grabbing statements from those in the public eye who've declared that unvaccinated people should be shunned.
Sunny Hostin of "The View" earlier this month ripped into Americans who've indicated they won't get the COVID-19 vaccine by saying we should "shun" them — and the co-host specifically called out "white evangelicals" and "Republicans."
"When you look at the folks that are not getting vaccinated — because it's a quarter of Americans that aren't getting vaccinated — white evangelicals: 45% say they won't get vaccinated according to ... Pew Research ... almost 50% of Republicans are refusing to get the vaccine," Hostin said. "So we won't reach herd immunity because of those particular groups."
She then added, "So I say we need to shun those that refuse to get vaccinated."
A few days before Hostin's nationally televised takedown, USA Today published an op-ed by a far-left former Justice Department prosecutor titled, "It's time to start shunning the 'vaccine hesitant.' They're blocking COVID herd immunity."
Michael J. Stern wrote that "businesses should make vaccination a requirement for employment" and that "things should get personal, too: People should require friends to be vaccinated to attend the barbecues and birthday parties they host. Friends don't let friends spread the coronavirus."
One wonders if Hostin or Stern would utter their venom to the faces of Fauci, Marks, and Walensky — or in front of the still-unvaccinated employees of the NIH, CDC, or FDA.Video game and entertainment media outlets IGN and Game Informer published and then retracted articles encouraging readers to donate to charities for the Palestinian civilians caught in the crossfire of the long-standing Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
On May 14, IGN posted an article titled, "How to Help Palestine," which provided links to five charities and organizations that provide humanitarian relief to Palestinian civilians living in the West Bank and Gaza. The article featured a graphic of the Palestinian flag in IGN's masthead.
"Palestinian civilians are currently suffering in great numbers in Jerusalem, Gaza, and West Bank, due to the active Israel-Palestine conflict," IGN staff wrote. "The NYTimes reported that most of the deaths so far have occurred in Gaza. Below are charities and organizations on the ground in those areas where you can donate funds to help those most in need. We will continue to update this article with other ways you can help."
Game Informer staff published a similar article on May 15, citing the IGN post and linking to the same charities. Several top gaming outlets posted their own pro-Palestine stories, following IGN's lead.
But on Monday, the IGN and Game Informer articles were taken down. IGN released a statement about the removal, apologizing for appearing to take sides in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
"We have a track record of supporting humanitarian efforts and charities across the globe. In the instance of our recent post regarding how to help civilians in the Israel-Palestinian Conflict, our philanthropic instincts to help those in need was not in-line with our intent of trying to show support for all people impacted by tragic events," IGN said.
"By highlighting only one population, the post mistakenly left the impression that we were politically aligned with one side. That was not our intention and we sincerely regret the error."
Game Informer has not yet released a public statement on why its article was taken down.
Kotaku reported that after the IGN article went live, IGN Israel shared a statement on its social media accounts condemning the U.S. IGN article and social media posts supporting Palestinian charities as "misleading."
"We at IGN Israel support the State of Israel (obviously) and support IDF soldiers who do everything to keep us all in these tough days," IGN Israel stated. "We work in every way possible to remove this misleading and offensive content from the American edition which does not represent our views."
That post by IGN Israel has since been deleted.
Reacting on social media, various game industry journalists and media figures were critical of the decision and speculated that IGN's Palestinian-sympathetic editorial staff was under orders from the website's corporate owners to take down the post.
Israeli-Palestinian fighting began again after weeks of tensions boiled over into violence when Israel's Supreme Court approved the evictions of six Palestinian families from a neighborhood in East Jerusalem to make way for Israeli settlers. On May 7, Israeli police were deployed to the Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, where conflict with Palestinian worshippers there led to rocket strikes on Israel by Hamas and retaliation by Israeli Defense Forces.
President Joe Biden on Sunday spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, raising concerns about civilian casualties in Gaza amid the ongoing violence. Palestinian health officials claim at least 140 civilians, including dozens of children, have been killed by Israeli airstrikes, while nine people, including two children, were killed by Hamas rockets in Israel.
More than 25 Democratic senators, led by Sen. Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.) have called for an immediate ceasefire between Israel and Palestine to "prevent further loss of life and further escalation of violence."Podcast host Joe Rogan says that "straight white men" will soon lose their rights to speak at all if they bow to progressives.
What are the details?
During a recent discussion with comedian Joe List, Rogan said that cancel culture is too rampant to enter any sort of "edgy" territory when it comes to comedy.
"You can never be woke enough," Rogan said. “That's the problem, it keeps going further and further down the line. If you get to the point where you agree to all these demands — it will eventually get to a point where straight white men are not allowed to talk."
The popular podcaster added that suppression of free thought and expression will become so ingrained in the American psyche that it will be second nature to do as they are told rather than question or speak out against the new norm.
“[They'll say] it's your privilege to express yourself when other people of color have been silenced throughout history," Rogan reasoned.
“You're not allowed to go outside because so many people were imprisoned for so many years. I mean I'm not joking," the "Joe Rogan Experience" host added. "It really will get there, it's that crazy."
Rogan also pointed out that far too many people are "taking advantage of this weirdness" in popular culture.
"We just gotta be nice to each other, man," he said. "And there's a lot of people that are taking advantage of this weirdness in our culture, and then that becomes their thing. Their thing is calling people out for their privilege, calling people out for their position.
"You know, so, it's f***ing crazy times," Rogan concluded.
What else?
Earlier this month, Rogan spoke to comedian Dave Chappelle for more than three hours on the topic of "woke" culture.
During the interview, the two discussed the anger provoked by Elon Musk's recent hosting gig on "Saturday Night Live."
Of Musk's appearance, Chappelle said, "I'm torn, because I like a warrior for a good cause, but I'm really into tactics. You're not gonna nag people into behaving in a way — in fact, if you continue with this tone, even if you're right, you'll be very hard to hear."
Chappelle added that people were likely upset over Musk's appearance more because he is one of the world's richest men or because he had the audacity to analyze the COVID-19 pandemic from a "factual, not emotional, perspective."
"I think the people that are complaining that he's gonna be on 'Saturday Night Live,' I think what's going on now is they want someone to be 100% compliant to whatever ideology they're a part of — and any deviation from that is problematic," Rogan reasoned at the time.Aside from the government treating children as if they are at risk from this virus, the most consequentially unscientific policy from our government is the treatment of convalescent COVID patients as if they are not immune to the virus. Government has refused to lift any restrictions on those already infected and treats them as less immune than those who are vaccinated, still encouraging them to get the vaccine. In fact, the science says just the opposite.
Last week, even Jordan Peterson, a public figure admired by many people suspicious of the government-corporate monopoly, tweeted out that he is getting vaccinated because he believes his antibody levels from prior infection are too low to protect him.
This speaks to just how much the government and media have censored the information about T cells and how even a mild infection conveys long-term robust immunity against reinfection. One study found the immunity to last even 17 years later from SARS-1-infected patients who never even had COVID-19. Let's put aside the fact that the vaccines themselves have not been proven effective beyond a few months so far and thus would suffer the same perceived flaw of waning immunity as previous infection. The reality is that it's already proven that natural immunity is broader, more robust, and enduring than anything from a vaccine.
Even in vaccine-obsessed Israel, researchers from Tel Aviv University concluded that their research "puts into question the need to vaccinate recent (up to six month) previously-infected individuals." A study of 6.3 million Israelis showed that the estimated protection for those already infected was 94.8% from reinfection and 96.4% from severe illness, as compared to effectiveness of 92.8% and 94.4%, respectively, from the vaccines. There was just one death in the entire country of someone who supposedly already had the virus, and he was over 80 years old.
One of the challenges people foresaw with vaccines for a virus that mutates a lot like the flu is that the immunity against the spike protein might not work against mutant strains. But studies thus far have shown that natural immunity is even more robust. A new preprint study from French researchers tested blood samples from health care workers who never had the virus but got both Pfizer shots against blood samples from those health care workers who had a previous mild infection and a third group of patients who had a serious case of COVID. They found, "No neutralisation escape could be feared concerning the two variants 53 of concern in both populations" of those previously infected. At the same time, the effectiveness of even prior mild infection against the South African variant appeared stronger than in those who had the Pfizer shots.
It simply makes no sense that natural immunity, which is much broader, would be worse than vaccination. Remember, we don't collect convalescent plasma from vaccinated people; we collect it from previously infected people. Thus, even if one believes the risk of side effects from the vaccine is low, it's definitely higher than the benefit of vaccinating a convalescent COVID patient, which is zero. In fact, several preprint studies are raising questions about the safety of the vaccines, particularly for those whose immune systems have already been primed by the virus.
A University of Manchester study of 2,000 vaccinated adults, 26% of whom already had the virus, found that "prior COVID-19 infection was associated with increased risk of any side effect" as well as "increased risk of severe side effects, leading to hospital care."
Dr. Peter McCollough, a clinical cardiologist and professor of medicine at Texas A&M University College of Medicine, Dallas, said on my podcast last Friday that because convalescent patients already have their immune systems primed for the spike protein, and based on several studies, that "doctors believe COVID-19 recovered are contraindicated for all COVID-19 vaccines."
Another study from U.K. researchers (Raw, et. Al.) found that those with prior infection reported more moderate side effects from the vaccine in almost every category than those who had no prior infection.
In addition to extra risks from the side effects, findings of a study from researchers in Spain and Mount Sinai in New York suggest that the second Pfizer vaccine in particular might harm the already robust T cell immunity of previously infected individuals. They found that "in individuals with a pre-existing immunity against SARS-CoV-2, the second vaccine dose not only fail to boost humoral immunity but determines a contraction of the spike-specific T cell response."
The authors therefore recommend that "individuals with pre-existing immunity against SARS-CoV-2 should be spared the second dose of the vaccine, at least temporarily, to prevent a possible contraction of their spike-specific memory T cell immunity."
Why in the world would we take natural immunity that seems to protect with T cells for at least 17 years and risk possibly depleting it and suffering more adverse reactions with no proven benefit?
Now that we know the CDC and Fauci have been lying to us about masks for months and made a capricious and arbitrary about-face in a matter of days, why should we trust anything else they say about the virus and vaccines?Twitter suspended a member of Spain's Parliament last week after the politician wrote on the social media platform that "a man cannot get pregnant."
What are the details?
Francisco José Contreras, a member of Spain's right-wing Vox Party, was locked out of his Twitter account for 12 hours after publishing the politically incorrect statement.
Contreras was reportedly responding to a news article in which a transgender man claimed they were now a father after giving birth to a child.
"Es una mentira. Un hombre no puede quedar embarazado. Un hombre no tiene útero ni óvulos," Contreras wrote in Spanish, which translates in English to, "This is a lie. A man cannot get pregnant. A man neither has a uterus nor ovaries."
Twitter claimed Contreras had violated its platform rules against "hate speech." Twitter specifically cited rules against "threatening, harassing, or encouraging violence" against people on the basis of "sexual orientation," "gender," and "gender identity."
How did Contreras respond?
The politician, who has been a member of Spain's lower chamber of Congress since 2019, mocked Twitter in a post on Facebook revealing his Twitter suspension.
"You can that see this is already fascist biology. Next time I'll try 2 + 2 = 4," he wrote.
In a statement provided to LifeSiteNews, Contreras vowed to not "yield" to Twitter's "twisted worldview."
"We will not yield to Twitter imposing a twisted (and anthropologically wrong) worldview," Contreras said. "We will continue to speak the truth about human nature. Biological truth should not be regarded as 'hate speech'. It's biology, not bigotry."
Anything else?
According to Counting Stars, a Spanish news publication, this is not the first time Spain's Vox Party has been targeted for suspension by Twitter.
From Counting Stars:
The treatment that Twitter is giving this conservative party is especially scandalous. Last February, at the gates of regional elections in Catalonia, Twitter censored the Vox account in a new interference by the American company in an electoral process in another country. Twitter's excuse in that case was that stating statistics showing the high percentage of criminal complaints against Maghrebis was also "incitement to hatred." Apparently, Twitter believes that statistics, like biology, should be censored if at any time they contradict the ideological dogmas of progressivism.
In fact, Twitter allegedly has been inconsistent in enforcing its policies.
Twitter allegedly permitted left-wing activists to threaten Vox Party president Santiago Abascal and other members of the Vox Party, Counting Stars reported.Parents with children who qualify for President Joe Biden's expanded child tax credit will begin to receive their monthly payments on July 15, the administration said Monday.
The Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service announced that roughly 39 million U.S. households — which house 88% of the children in the United States — will begin receiving monthly payments from the federal government with no strings attached. The payments are part of the newly advanceable child tax credit that was codified by Biden's $1.9 trillion COVID-19 stimulus package, "The American Rescue Plan."
Under Biden's plan, the maximum child tax credit in 2021 was increased to $3,600 for children under the age of 6 and to $3,000 per child for kids between 6 and 17. The tax credit, which will be paid monthly in advance instead of when families file their taxes, is expected to lift more than five million children out of poverty this year, according to the Biden administration.
Administration officials said starting in July the payments will be made on the 15th of each month unless the 15th falls on a weekend or holiday. Eligible families will receive a payment of up to $300 per month for each child under age 6 and up to $250 per month for each child age 6-17. Families who signed up to receive their tax returns via direct deposit can expect these payments to be directly deposited into their bank accounts as well.
"The American Rescue Plan is delivering critical tax relief to middle class and hard-pressed working families with children. With today's announcement, about 90% of families with children will get this new tax relief automatically, starting in July," President Joe Biden said in a statement.
The president called on Congress to extend the expanded child tax credit past 2021 by passing his "American Families Plan," a $1.8 trillion spending proposal to wage war on poverty.
"While the American Rescue Plan provides for this vital tax relief to hard working families for this year, Congress must pass the American Families Plan to ensure that working families will be able to count on this relief for years to come. For working families with children, this tax cut sends a clear message: help is here."
Biden's $1.8 trillion American Families Plan would, in addition to expanding the child tax credit through 2025, provide at least two years of free community college, provide free pre-K education, federally fund paid family and medical leave programs, and increase Obamacare subsidies. Democrats want to increase corporate and capital gains taxes to pay for the plan over the next 15 years.Fresh on the heels of boldly commanding top podcaster — and MMA fighter — Joe Rogan to "just stay out of it" in regard to Rogan suggesting that young people should not get the COVID-19 vaccine, Prince Harry's outspoken mouth is getting him in trouble again.
What did he say this time?
The Duke of Sussex — who recently left his royal family behind in England for the sunnier environs of southern California, since which he's nabbed a considerable windfall through deals with American companies like Netflix and Spotify, the Daily Mail reported — was conversing on Dax Shepard's podcast Thursday when the subject of paparazzi taking photos of celebrities' children came up.
"I don't want to start, sort of, going down the First Amendment route because that's a huge subject and one in which I don't understand because I've only been here for a short period of time, but you can find a loophole in anything," Harry said, adding that "laws were created to protect people."
The prince added, "I believe we live in an age now where you've got certain elements of the media redefining to us what privacy means. There's a massive conflict of interest. And then you've got social media platforms, trying to redefine what free speech means. ... And we're living in this world where we've almost, like, the laws have been completely flipped by the very people that need them flipped so they can make more money, and they can capitalize off our pain, grief, and this sort of general self-destructive mode that is happening in the moment."
And soon Harry delivered the shot heard 'round the world: "I've got so much I want to say about the First Amendment. I still don't understand it, but it is bonkers." (In fairness, Shepard agreed: "It is bonkers.")
The prince's comments can be heard in context after the 39-minute mark of the podcast.
How did folks react?
To put it mildly, a number of Americans didn't much care for Harry's commentary on the Constitution's First Amendment, which guarantees citizens the right to freely express themselves, practice whatever religions they choose — or none at all — and to assemble and petition the government.
To say nothing of the fact that the prince is a guest here, making a load of cash here, and enjoying a lifestyle here protected by U.S. laws — and on top of that admitting that "I still don't understand" the First Amendment, yet summoning the arrogance to dismiss it as "bonkers" — a number of notable U.S. citizens fired back hard.
"We fought a war in 1776 so we don't have to care what you say or think," Meghan McCain of "The View" said in reaction to Harry's comments. "That being said, you have chosen to seek refuge from your homeland here and thrive because all of what our country has to offer and one of the biggest things is the 1st Amendment — show some utter respect."
Others shared McCain's sentiments:
Republican U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas quipped in rather understated fashion that it's "nice" that Harry "can say that."
GOP U.S. Rep. Dan Crenshaw, also of the Lone Star State, noted that Harry " just doubled the size of my Independence Day party."
Megyn Kelly reminded him that it's "'b
"Don't let the door knob hit you, Windsor," Fox News' host Laura Ingraham tweeted.
Author Nick Adams — who's from Australia and says in his Twitter bio that he's "American by choice" — declared that "Prince Harry should go back to the UK!"
Even fellow Brits got into the act. Former Brexit leader Nigel Farage observed that "for Prince Harry to condemn the USA's First Amendment shows he has lost the plot. Soon he will not be wanted on either side of the pond."
Dan Wootton of the UK's GBNews tweeted that "the First Amendment is one of the biggest reasons why the USA is a bastion of free speech and freedom of expression. The fact Prince Harry doesn't like it because he thinks rich privileged folk deserve more rights than everyone else says a lot!"
Speaking of, Harry and Meghan just added more to their already considerable coffers with a new partnership with Proctor and Gamble, Yahoo Finance reported Sunday.
Anything else?
According to the Daily Mail, Harry also criticized Prince Charles, Prince Philip, and the queen during the podcast and complained he had suffered "genetic pain," which led to royal aides demanding that give up his royal titles.
During the 2020 election cycle, Harry and Meghan issued a video widely interpreted as a campaign ad for then-candidate Joe Biden.
When asked for his reaction to the couple weighing in on the race at the time, then-President Donald Trump said, "I'm not a fan of hers, and I would say this — and she probably has heard that — but I wish a lot of luck to Harry, 'cause he's gonna need it."
Harry and Meghan also were famously interviewed by Oprah Winfrey recently, during which they alleged racism within the Royal Family.The Supreme Court has agreed to hear arguments in an abortion case out of Mississippi that pro-life proponents hope could result in a major rollback of abortion rights established nearly 50 years ago in the landmark case of Roe v. Wade.
What are the details?
The high court announced in an order issued Monday that it would take up the dispute, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. The case concerns an abortion law passed in Mississippi in 2018 that prohibits abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, with some exceptions.
The law had been blocked by lower courts, including the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which cited Supreme Court precedent preventing states from banning abortions before a fetus is able survive outside the womb, CNBC reported. Fetal viability is generally considered to occur at 22 weeks or later.
The court's decision to hear the case sets up a pivotal showdown over abortion and is the first case to make it to the court from a wave of state laws meant to challenge the court's 1973 Roe v. Wade opinion.
Many perceive the court — which now has a 6-3 conservative majority due to former President Donald Trump's three appointments — is prepped to undo legal precedents surrounding the court's controversial enshrinement of a woman's right to terminate a pregnancy.
The court will likely hear the case this fall during its term beginning in October, and a ruling can be expected by summer of 2022.
What else?
In the case, the state of Mississippi is essentially requesting that the Supreme Court re-evaluate the constitutionality of the fetal viability standard, specifically as to whether it "protects women's health, the dignity of unborn children, and the integrity of the medical profession," according to a petition filed with the justices.
"It is well past time for the Court to revisit the wisdom of the viability bright-line rule," Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch wrote in the petition.
The legal challenge is separate from a litany of other state laws passed in recent years, including one in Mississippi, that seek to ban abortions after a fetal heartbeat is detected, often within the first six weeks of a pregnancy.
Jackson Women's Health Organization, the last remaining abortion clinic in Mississippi, had urged the court not to take up the case.
Hillary Schneller, an attorney representing the clinic, reportedly wrote in a filing that "in an unbroken line of decisions over the last fifty years, this Court has held that the Constitution guarantees each person the right to decide whether to continue a pre-viability pregnancy."
She added, "While the State has interests throughout pregnancy, '[b]efore viability, the State's interests are not strong enough to support a prohibition of abortion.'"President Joe Biden spent his first 100 days in office reversing and erasing as many of former President Donald Trump's policies as he could, and Trump's former ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, believes that was a "terrible mistake."
On the "Glenn Beck Podcast" this week, Haley joined Glenn to discuss President Biden's "Trump reversals" and pointed out the one Trump victory that Biden can't erase — and the proof is playing out right now.
"He just reversed everything," Haley said of Biden. "But the part that he can't erase, and it's really a point of pride, I think, is the Abraham Accords, because this was an amazing thing. Many presidents before Trump had said that the only way to get peace in the Middle East was through the Palestinians. The president went to his first foreign policy speech, it was to the Arab Summit, and he said, 'I want us to unite against terrorism," meaning, translation, I want us to unite against Iran. He got the attention of the Arab countries. Then he started to acknowledge truths: Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. We're going to have Israel's back. This is what Israel can do for you," she continued.
"I had a meeting, I and the British ambassador had a meeting with the Saudi and the Emirati ambassador, and they were complaining, you know, 'Why doesn't anybody call out the Houthis for the terrorist organization that they are? Why are they always hitting us?' And I stopped them and I said, 'You know, I could make the same case for Hamas and Israel.' We went on with the meeting, and they pulled me aside afterwards, and they said, 'We know you're right.' So I asked, 'Why do you hit Israel the way you do?' The Emirati said, 'We do it because we have to for our constituencies,' and I said, 'At some point you're going to have to have the courage to tell your constituencies the truth.' You fast-forward to the Abraham Accords, and that was the Emiratis having the courage to tell their constituencies the truth," Haley explained.
Watch the video clip below to hear more from Nikki Haley or find the full podcast here:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.NYC Pride, the group in charge of New York City's annual Pride March, announced over the weekend that it has moved to ban police from events until at least 2025 as part of an effort to make LGBT individuals feel "safer" and challenge officers to "acknowledge their harm."
What are the details?
In a press release on Saturday, the group argued its decision to prohibit police from events would "create safer spaces for the LGBTQIA+ and BIPOC communities at a time when violence against marginalized groups, specifically BIPOC and trans communities, has continued to escalate."
"The sense of safety that law enforcement is meant to provide can instead be threatening, and at times dangerous, to those in our community who are most often targeted with excessive force and/or without reason," the group stated, adding it is "unwilling to contribute in any way to creating an atmosphere of fear or harm for members of the community."
"Effective immediately, NYC Pride will ban corrections and law enforcement exhibitors at NYC Pride events until 2025. At that time their participation will be reviewed by the Community Relations and Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion committees, as well as the Executive Board," the press release continued.
Under the new guidance, all law enforcement officers — reportedly including members of the Gay Officers Action League (GOAL) — will be called on only when "absolutely necessary as mandated by city officials" and even then will be required to keep "at least one city block away from event perimeter areas."
According to NYC Pride, replacing New York City police and other law enforcement at events will be a combination of "trained private security, community leaders, and volunteers."
What else?
In the statement, the group also challenged law enforcement to "acknowledge their harm" and correct their course moving forward in order to perhaps begin to make "impactful change."
But in a statement responding to the news, the president of GOAL called the group's decision to ban police from events "shameful" and "demoralizing."
"Their response to activist pressure is to take the low road by preventing their fellow community members from celebrating their identities and honoring the shared legacy of the Stonewall Riots," Detective Brian Downey said in a statement ahead of NYC Pride's announcement, Fox News reported.
Other members of New York City law enforcement reportedly referred to the move as "misguided" and "disheartening."
"The idea of officers being excluded is disheartening and runs counter to our shared values of inclusion and tolerance," Detective Sophia Mason added. "That said, we'll still be there to ensure traffic safety and good order during this huge, complex event."Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fired back at journalists who claimed over the weekend they were "lucky" to escape a building in Gaza before Israeli Defense Forces destroyed it.
What is the background?
Controversy erupted on Saturday when the IDF struck a high-rise building in Gaza that housed international media, including an Associated Press bureau.
Journalists and First Amendment organizations immediately condemned the act, which Israel said was necessary because Hamas intelligence assets operated from the building. Israel later showed American intelligence officials "smoking gun" evidence proving Hamas' presence in the building.
What did Netanyahu say?
Speaking on CBS' "Face the Nation," Netanyahu rebuked an AP reporter who claimed journalists were "lucky" to escape their offices before the building was leveled.
Netanyahu said it wasn't luck. In fact, he explained Israeli officials went to great lengths to warn occupants the airstrike was coming, a fact that was widely reported after the building was targeted.
"The interesting thing is, I would say that, you know, all the journalists, one of the, I think AP journalists said, 'We were lucky to get out' No, you weren't lucky to get out. It wasn't luck. It's because we took special pains to call people in those buildings to make sure that the premises were vacated," Netanyahu explained.
"Look, you have your own experiences, I think, in Mosul, in Fallujah, in Afghanistan. I think you can appreciate the efforts we go through in dense urban fighting when terrorists are targeting civilians who are hiding behind civilians, how difficult that is," he continued. "We do our best to avoid civilian casualties. And we did that yesterday with that building as well."
Netanyahu defends strikes on Gaza, says Israel will do "whatever it takes to restore order" youtu.be
Netanyahu also confirmed that intelligence was shown to American officials proving the building was a legitimate military target.
"We share with our American friends all that intelligence, and here's the intelligence we had: it's about Palestinian terrorists, an intelligence office for the Palestinian terrorist organization housed in that building that plots and organizes the terror attacks against Israeli civilians," Netanyahu explained.
"So it's a perfectly legitimate target. And I can tell you that we took every precaution to make sure that there were no civilian injuries. In fact, no deaths, no injuries whatsoever," he added. "Well, I can't say injuries, I don't know if somebody received a fragment of a stone. I don't know that. But no people were killed."
What did the AP say?
AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt claimed his organization was unaware that Hamas operated from the same building as his journalists and demanded that Israel show evidence proving its claims.
"The Israeli government says the building contained Hamas military intelligence assets. We have called on the Israeli government to put forward the evidence," Pruitt said in a statement.
"AP's bureau has been in this building for 15 years. We have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building," he claimed. "This is something we actively check to the best of our ability. We would never knowingly put our journalists at risk."A crocheting and lifestyle website is selling crocheted prosthetic penises for female children whose parents believe they are male.
What are the details?
The "Bitty Bug Soft Packer," according to Stitchbug Studio — which sells the pattern for the "soft packer" — is "for use by trans and nonbinary folks, or as an anatomical model."
Bethany Amborn, who designed the viral pattern, said that she came across the idea for the Bitty Bug — which is especially designed for younger children — when she was looking for a pattern to make a soft packer for herself.
After being "frustrated by the cost and discomfort of silicone options," Amborn said that she created a soft packer based on a free pattern she discovered on the internet and shared the final product to a LGBTQ+ crocheting group.
"Immediately I had 2 parents ask me please, could you make one for my little son?" Amborn recalled. "After hearing from a mother who was just crying with her son, unsure what to do to ease his pain of dysphoria and there being no options available fora children, the very first packers I made were for 10 and 6-year-old little boys."
What else?
Twitter user Slatzism shared a screenshot of the project and captioned it, "A knitted penis for extremely small girls to wear in their pants if their parents believe them to be transgender."
The tweet continued, "It is intended for girls so young, they demonstrate the product in a diaper."
The user added, "The entire purpose of a prosthetic penises is if a trans identified female has some sort of genital anxiety, they can wear it to alleviate that dysphoria. WHY would a very small, diaper wearing child have any concerns, anxieties, or even *awareness* of their genitals?????"
The user's initial tweet has been liked more than 1,200 times at the time of this reporting.
Twitter backlash ensues
One social media user tweeted about the soft packer, writing, "Oh look, a new form of child abuse."
Another added, "Parents forcing the trans agenda on their baby girls can now buy a crotchet penis to put in her diaper or panties. This is absurd."
"Eww," another user complained. "Knitted packers 'appropriate for children.' The site states they make these as 'Silicone prosthetics do not come in sizes appropriate for kiddos.' Yes, because children should be having fun, not worrying about a bulge in their underwear. Disgusting."
Another Twitter user added, "I wish this wasn't real but here we are. Knitted packers 'appropriate for children' which girls can wear in diapers. Anyone who does this to their child should be arrested — this is child abuse."
"God," another user wrote. "Send the meteors. We are done here."Bill Gates on Sunday admitted to having had an affair with a Microsoft engineer 20 years ago, according to a report from the New York Times, which reportedly prompted an internal investigation.
The outlet reported that the tech billionaire resigned before board members could force him out of the company.
He has claimed that his departure had nothing to do with the affair.
What are the details?
A spokesperson for Gates — who, along with estranged wife, Melinda Gates, announced the couple's intent to divorce earlier this month — told the outlet, "There was an affair almost 20 years ago which ended amicably."
The report alleged that Bill was known to "pursue" multiple women while married to Melinda.
The report, titled, "Long Before Divorce, Bill Gates Had a Reputation for Questionable Behavior," outlined Bill's purported propensity for soliciting dinner and meetings with Microsoft employees in whom he reportedly had more than just a passing professional interest.
The Times noted, "In 2019, Microsoft's board of directors, on which Mr. Gates sat, opened an investigation into one of those cases after being notified that he had 'sought to initiate an intimate relationship with a company employee in the year 2000.'"
In response, the board hired a law firm to investigate the matter.
According to the report, Bill reportedly messaged a Microsoft employee in 2006 with a dinner invitation and wrote, "If this makes you uncomfortable, pretend it never happened." Bill was the company chairman at the time of the alleged 2006 incident.
A year or two later, Bill reportedly approached another employee and said, "I want to see you. Will you have dinner with me?"
The woman told the outlet that she "felt uncomfortable," but "laughed to avoid responding."
"On at least a few occasions, Mr. Gates pursued women who worked for him at Microsoft and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation," the outlet added.
"Six current and former employees of Microsoft, the foundation and the firm that manages the Gates's fortune said those incidents, and others more recently, at times created an uncomfortable workplace environment," the report continued. "Mr. Gates was known for making clumsy approaches to women in and out of the office. His behavior fueled widespread chatter among employees about his personal life."
While the employees said that Gates' behavior made employees uncomfortable, they did not believe it was "predatory" and added that the former Microsoft CEO "did not pressure the women to submit to his advances for the sake of their careers."A longtime contributor to CNN found himself in hot water after tweeting, "The world today needs a Hitler." The inflammatory tweet, which could be interpreted as a call for the extermination of the Jewish people, was posted to Twitter on Sunday amidst the rising tensions and violence between Israel and Hamas in the Middle East.
The CNN contributor quickly deleted the post, but it sparked social media users to comb through his Twitter profile. Adeel Raja, who has written dozens of articles for CNN, also appears to have a history of posting ant-Semitic messages on Twitter.
Donald Trump Jr. posted screenshots of the "Hitler" tweet as well as a CNN article that indicates Raja as a co-author, and his LinkedIn profile, where he describes himself as a "Freelance Contributor at CNN."
"Hey @cnn this seems to be one of yours, but I imagine that surprises no one anymore," Trump wrote.
The now-deleted "The world today needs a Hitler" tweet was just the tip of the iceberg. There were other tweets praising the murderous Nazi leader.
"The only reason I am supporting Germany in the finals — Hitler was a German and he did good with those Jews!" Raja wrote during the 2014 FIFA World Cup.
Another tweet from 2014 read, "My support for Germany is for what Hitler did to the Jews!"
One tweet from Raja's verified Twitter account said, "Hail Hitler!"
Raja responded to a Twitter user calling for "Palestinian genocide....inner Hitler among Germans must resurface," by enthusiastically tweeting, "Hell yeah!!!!!"
In another Twitter post, Raja urged terrorist groups to go to Israel, "ISIS, TTP, TALIBAN - please go to Israel ASAP!"
Raja is a longtime contributor to CNN.com. There are 53 results when you search for "Adeel Raja" on the CNN website. It appears that his first article for the CNN website was published on Jan. 2, 2014, and he was contributing fairly consistently to the site. Raja posted as recently as Sept. 16, 2020. Most of the articles he contributed are related to Pakistan, where he is allegedly based.
When asked about Raja, CNN spokesman Matt Dornic told the Washington Examiner that he has "never heard" of him and was "looking into it."
RELATED: Jews attacked by pro-Palestinian protesters in Toronto. Anti-Semitic chants hurled in London: 'F*** Jews, rape their daughters!'Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, defended her agency Sunday after finally recommending last week that fully vaccinated Americans can return to normal life.
What is the background?
After the CDC unveiled the new face mask guidance last week, Republicans immediately accused the Biden administration of a politically motivated decision, pointing to numerous crises facing President Joe Biden.
"While the new mask guidance is encouraging, the CDC and my Far Radical Left colleagues only chose to do this to distract from the consequences of catastrophic policy decisions that have been heard around the world," Rep. Andy Biggs, chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, said.
"Inflation is rising, the Middle East is in shambles, the working class can't fill up their gas tanks, our border is being overrun and the Biden Administration's leadership is nowhere to be found," he added.
What did Walensky say?
Speaking on ABC's "This Week," Walensky denied her agency was motivated by politics when issuing their newest guidance.
Instead, Walensky claimed the science had "evolved" over the last two weeks revealing the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines.
"We now have science that has really just evolved even in the last two weeks that demonstrates that these vaccines are safe, they are effective, they are working in the population, just as they did in the clinical trials, that they are working against our variants that we have here circulating in the United States, and that, if you were to develop an infection, while— even if you got vaccinated, that you can't transmit that infection to other people," Walensky said.
In fact, Walensky claimed the "science was really evolving as late as last Thursday."
What was the reaction?
Walensky was widely mocked after the interview. As critics pointed out, COVID vaccines have been proving their efficacy for more than five months now.
In fact, countries that have a high percentage of vaccinated people — Israel, the United States, Great Britain, for example — have experienced significant decreases in COVID cases and deaths.
Meanwhile, states that reopened and dropped mask mandates have not seen spikes in cases or deaths.
"Wow the science evolved in sync with several growing Biden WH scandals. Just incredible. Science truly is a wonder," one person pointed out.
"What science has evolved in the last 2 weeks? Were they asleep for months before that? I get not wanting to admit you ignored the science for a long time for political reasons, but don't just lie to people like this," another person reacted.
"'The science' has not 'evolved.' Nobody is dumb enough to believe this. Not even the triple-maskers who hang on Fauci's every word believe it. The apparatus made you obey. Now the apparatus demands you forget that they made you obey for no good reason," radio host Buck Sexton said.
"Same lady said six weeks ago that she felt 'impending doom' as she forecasted a massive wave of COVID infections and deaths. She was wrong. And now she dances," Bryan Dean Wright pointed out.
"This is a lie. The vaccines never would have been given the green light for use if they were not proven in clinical trials to be 'safe' and 'effective' and that happened 6 months ago," another person said.
"Science is now code word for bad polling data," one person mocked.
"I'd really like to know what evidence came in the last two weeks that said something different from the evidence of the last four months," another persons said.
Despite the "evolved" science, the CDC said over the weekend students should continue to wear face masks in schools.British radio host Brendan O'Connor confronted atheist Richard Dawkins last week over a controversial comment the world-famous scientist made about babies with Down Syndrome seven years ago.
In the end, O'Connor forced Dawkins into somewhat recanting.
What is the background?
Dawkins ignited controversy in August 2014 when he told a woman that it would be "immoral" to birth a child with Down Syndrome.
"Abort it and try again. It would be immoral to bring it into the world if you have the choice," Dawkins said.
Dawkins later explained in a statement:
I personally would go further and say that, if your morality is based, as mine is, on a desire to increase the sum of happiness and reduce suffering, the decision to deliberately give birth to a Down baby, when you have the choice to abort it early in the pregnancy, might actually be immoral from the point of view of the child's own welfare.
What happened last week?
O'Connor, who said he has a child with Down Syndrome, directly confronted Dawkins over his grim position.
"You are speaking to someone who did bring someone like that into the world," O'Connor said. "I would accept that fact and I wouldn't judge anyone's choice about that, but why is it immoral not to abort it?"
In response, Dawkins said people with Down Syndrome increase suffering in the world.
"Well that was probably putting it a bit too strongly, but given that the amount of suffering in the world probably does not go down, probably does go up, compared to having another child who doesn't have Down Syndrome," Dawkins said.
O'Connor shot back, "How do you know that it increases the amount of suffering in the world to bring in a child with Down's Syndrome?"
"I don't know it for certain. It seems to me to be plausible," Dawkins responded. "You probably would increase the amount of happiness in the world more by having another child instead."
Then, O'Connor forced Dawkins to admit he has no scientific evidence to back his claims.
"But you have no reason for knowing that?" O'Connor asked.
"I have no direct evidence, no— it just seems plausible," Dawkins admitted.
O'Connor responded, "Just, you know, you're such a scientific, logical person that I thought that you could possibly have some logical back up to it."
Later, Dawkins admitted that he does not know anyone with Down Syndrome, and when O'Connor asked Dawkins if it would be "immoral for [pregnant women] not to" abort a baby with Down Syndrome, Dawkins attempted to shift the entire discussion.
"Let's leave out the immoral," Dawkins said.
O'Connor shot back, "No, but you brought immoral into it."
"OK, well I take that back," Dawkins admitted. "I think it would be wise and sensible."
Toward the end of the discussion, O'Connor sarcastically reminded Dawkins, "You know children who are so-called 'perfect' can cause terrible suffering in the world as well, but I suppose we have no way if checking, have we?"The Biden administration pulled over $2 billion that was meant for COVID-19 health resources such as coronavirus testing and emergency medical supplies, and diverted the American taxpayer money to the current border crisis. President Joe Biden's Department of Health and Human Services sunk the funds into housing for the over 47,000 unaccompanied minors who have flooded across the U.S. southern border this year.
"The redirected funds include $850 million that Congress originally allocated to rebuild the nation's Strategic National Stockpile, the emergency medical reserve strained by the Covid-19 response," Politico reported on Saturday. "Another $850 million is being taken from a pot intended to help expand coronavirus testing, according to three people with knowledge of the matter."
Health and Human Services reportedly pulled about $436 million from a "range of existing health initiatives across the department."
The Biden administration yanked the money away from a fund that was intended to replenish the Strategic National Stockpile, which builds up a reserve of health "supplies, medicines, and devices for lifesaving care" so that there are plenty of health resources available in the event of a national health emergency such as the coronavirus pandemic.
At the same time, Health and Human Services secretary Xavier Becerra petitioned Congress to grant another $905 million for the Strategic National Stockpile. Becerra said the SNS needs money for "personal protective equipment, ventilators, and medical supplies" to prepare for the "next public health crisis" or if the COVID-19 pandemic gets out of control again.
Politico noted that a total of $2.13 billion has been diverted from coronavirus health initiatives and been poured into the border crisis, which "exceeds the government's annual budget for the unaccompanied children program in each of the last two fiscal years."
Rep. Nicole Malliotakis (R-N.Y.) reacted to the reallocation of coronavirus funds to the migrant crisis by telling the New York Post, "The president single-handedly created this crisis and is now misplacing billions in taxpayers' money. The answer to every problem is not to throw money at it."
The constant and overwhelming flow of migrants across the border has been a financial nightmare for the Biden administration, which has shelled out $86 million in contracts to house 1,200 migrant families in U.S. hotels. A report from earlier this month found that the Biden administration anted up $3 billion to house unaccompanied children since February. Analysis from the Washington Post in April revealed the Biden administration is spending $60 million a week to shelter migrant minors in federal facilities operated by the Department of Health and Human Services.
In April, the highest number in two decades of migrants crossed the U.S. border.Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.), the recently ousted chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, claimed Sunday that Republicans who continue to support former President Donald Trump are "misled."
What are the details?
During an interview on "Fox News Sunday," host Chris Wallace asked Cheney why she continues to vocally criticize Trump, seemingly alienating the tens of millions of Republicans who support him.
In response, Cheney called Trump a "real danger" to American democracy.
"Former President Trump continues to be a real danger. What he is doing and what he is saying, his claims, his refusal to accept decisions by the courts, his claims...that somehow this election was stolen. What he is doing is he is causing people to believe that they can't count on our electoral process to actually convey the will of the people," Cheney began.
"We have to be a nation of laws. If you reject the rulings of the courts, if you work against the rulings of the courts, then you really are at war with the Constitution," she continued. "He is a continuing danger to our system."
"Those millions of people that you mention who supported the president have been misled. They've been betrayed," Cheney said. "And certainly, as we see his continued action to attack our democracy, his continued refusal to accept the results of the last election, you see that ongoing danger."
- YouTube youtu.be
Despite being ousted from her role in House Republican leadership, Cheney has made it clear she will not stop criticizing Trump.
Just minutes after being ousted, Cheney told reporters, "I will do everything I can to ensure that the former president never again gets anywhere near the Oval Office."
Anything else?
Cheney later said House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), who replaced Cheney as the No. 3 House Republican, are being "complicit" in Trump's claims about the election.
Stefanik pushed back at Cheney's criticism Sunday by saying Cheney is stuck "looking backwards."
"She is looking backwards. ... Republicans are looking forward. We are unified. And we are talking about conservative principles," Cheney said on Fox News' "Sunday Morning Futures."Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is the latest left-wing figure to not believe the science and defy the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Last Thursday, the CDC announced that life could return to normal, where face masks are not necessary, for fully vaccinated Americans outdoors and in most indoor situations. However, Ocasio-Cortez won't be taking the advice from CDC health officials.
Ocasio-Cortez, who is fully vaccinated, revealed she plans to flout the CDC's new guidance on face masks in a post on Instagram, where she has nearly 9 million followers.
"NYC got hit so hard that I think some of us are going to take time adjusting as we feel comfortable," AOC wrote in a recent Instagram story, according to BizPac Review.
"Personally I'm going to keep wearing my mask in shared indoor public spaces like elevators, subway, grocery store, etc.," the Democrat from New York said, then proclaiming that Americans should make the decision as to do whatever they are comfortable with, "If you want to keep wearing your mask then do it."
Ocasio-Cortez hinted that she plans to wear face masks even after the coronavirus pandemic, "Mask wearing is also something I'll probably continue doing overall from time to time if I feel like I might be coming down with something and don't want to spread it."
Ocasio-Cortez attempted to sell the idea of wearing face coverings by saying masks are "a nice accessory when you don't want to do your makeup."
Ocasio-Cortez joins a long list of Democrats and progressives who are skeptical of the science-based decision by the CDC to loosen mask restrictions for fully vaccinated Americans.
Blue state Govs. Andrew Cuomo of New York and Phil Murphy of New Jersey will also not take heed to the new CDC mask guidance.
"In New York, we have always relied on the facts and the science to guide us throughout the worst of this pandemic and in our successful reopening," Cuomo said last week. "We have received the newly revised guidance from the CDC regarding mask wearing and social distancing for those with vaccinations and are reviewing them in consultation with Dr. Zucker and our partners and health experts in surrounding states."
"We will keep our indoor mask mandate in place in public settings as we continue to work toward our vaccination goals," Murphy said on Friday. "To be clear, we're making incredible progress, but we're not there yet."
Others who decided not to listen to the CDC regarding masks include activist David Hogg, CNN analyst Dr. Leana Wen, MSNBC contributor Dr. Jason Johnson, and "Morning Joe" hosts Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough.
Regarding the new mask guidance from the health agency, far-left MSNBC talk show host Rachel Maddow said she'll have to "rewire" her brain to not see unmasked Americans as "threats" or "COVID deniers."Former Associated Press reporter Matti Friedman directly contradicted Associated Press President and CEO Gary Pruitt, who claimed Saturday the AP was unaware that Hamas terrorists were using the same building in Gaza City where AP and other media outlets housed their Gaza bureaus.
What did Pruitt claim?
After Israeli Defense Forces targeted a high-rise building in Gaza Saturday, which housed an AP bureau along with offices for other media outlets including Al Jazeera, the IDF revealed Hamas intelligence forces also occupied the building.
In a statement, Pruitt claimed his staffers "had no indication" Hamas worked from the building, and demanded Israel reveal evidence to prove terrorists, in fact, occupied the building.
"The Israeli government says the building contained Hamas military intelligence assets. We have called on the Israeli government to put forward the evidence," Pruitt said.
"AP's bureau has been in this building for 15 years. We have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building," he added. "This is something we actively check to the best of our ability. We would never knowingly put our journalists at risk."
But what did Friedman say?
The former AP journalist revealed in a 2014 article for the Atlantic that AP journalists knew about the presence of Hamas terrorists, explaining how Hamas uses the media to disseminate its narrative about the Israel-Palestine conflict.
When Hamas's leaders surveyed their assets before this summer's round of fighting, they knew that among those assets was the international press. The AP staff in Gaza City would witness a rocket launch right beside their office, endangering reporters and other civilians nearby—and the AP wouldn't report it, not even in AP articles about Israeli claims that Hamas was launching rockets from residential areas. (This happened.) Hamas fighters would burst into the AP's Gaza bureau and threaten the staff—and the AP wouldn't report it. (This also happened.) Cameramen waiting outside Shifa Hospital in Gaza City would film the arrival of civilian casualties and then, at a signal from an official, turn off their cameras when wounded and dead fighters came in, helping Hamas maintain the illusion that only civilians were dying. (This too happened; the information comes from multiple sources with firsthand knowledge of these incidents.)
[Paul] Colford, the AP spokesman, confirmed that armed militants entered the AP's Gaza office in the early days of the war to complain about a photo showing the location of a rocket launch, though he said that Hamas claimed that the men "did not represent the group." The AP "does not report many interactions with militias, armies, thugs or governments," he wrote. "These incidents are part of the challenge of getting out the news—and not themselves news."
Friedman also explained that Hamas knows "international coverage from the territory could be molded to its needs" and that reporters can "be intimidated when necessary and that they would not report the intimidation."
What did Israel say?
A source close to Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi told the Jerusalem Post that Israeli officials provided the U.S. government with evidence to corroborate their claim that Hamas military assets operated from of the building.
"We showed them the smoking gun proving Hamas worked out of that building," the source said. "I understand they found the explanation satisfactory."
In fact, officials in multiple Israeli government agencies confirmed the call that took place between President Joe Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Saturday was to, in part, show American officials the intelligence confirming Hamas' presence inside the building.
During the call, Biden reaffirmed his "strong support for Israel's right to defend itself against rocket attacks from Hamas," Reuters reported.UFC fighter Beneil Dariush pulled off an impressive upset at Ultimate Fighting Championship 262 on Saturday night. Dariush, ranked No. 7 in the lightweight category, defeated No. 5 contender Tony Ferguson at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas. Following Dariush's hard-fought victory over Ferguson via unanimous decision (30-27, 30-27, 30-27), the Iranian-American mixed martial arts fighter had a message for Elon Musk and condemned Marxism.
Following Dariush's win, which was his seventh in a row, the 32-year-old MMA fighter thanked Jesus Christ and dedicated the tremendous victory to victims of Marxist ideologies.
"First things first, I want to thank my lord and savior Jesus Christ, that's number one," Dariush told UFC color commentator Joe Rogan in a post-fight interview inside the octagon.
"Number two, I want to dedicate this fight to all the people who've been hurt by Marxist ideologies," Dariush proclaimed. "There are millions of you."
"It's just a fight, I know it's not much, but I want you to know that I love you," the victorious fighter continued. "And I understand the pain...I don't completely understand, but I love you. I understand your pain."
Then, on a lighter note, Dariush jokingly expressed his frustrations with Elon Musk for his electric car company not delivering a Tesla automobile to him after waiting for six months.
"Joe, I want to call out your buddy Elon. Elon Musk! Where is my wife's car, bro? I have been waiting for six months," Dariush said with a smirk. "I'm having a baby. I need a big car; I need to protect my daughter. Let's go, Elon, get me my car."
UFC 262: Beneil Dariush Octagon Interview www.youtube.com
Dariush, who is of Assyrian heritage, lived on a farm in Iran until he was 9 years old, then his parents moved him to the United States. Dariush began training in Brazilian jiu-jitsu in 2007, earning his black belt in only five years, and made his UFC debut in 2014.
Dariush is a devout Christian, and regularly talks about his faith on his Instagram page.
Dariush has done mission work in Haiti, and used his own money to start an orphanage in the poverty-stricken Caribbean country.
Dariush has also helped charities around the world, including a campaign to assist Iraqis devastated by ISIS by helping them move to Brazil as refugees.
Dariush visited the Philippines, where he fed the homeless and spent time at orphanages that protect children from being trafficked.Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.) reportedly boasts a higher lifetime conservative rating than Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), the newly elected No. 3 House Republican.
What are the details?
According to conservative PAC Club for Growth, which rates every member of Congress, Omar has a 38% lifetime conservative rating, while the group gives Stefanik a lifetime rating of just 35%.
Stefanik was elected as chairwoman of the House Republican Conference last week after House Republicans voted to oust Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) for continuing to criticize former President Donald Trump, blaming him for the deadly violence at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6.
Club for Growth opposed Stefanik's push to join GOP leadership, instead endorsing Rep. Chip Roy (R-Texas), who boasts a 100% lifetime conservative rating from Club for Growth.
David McIntosh, president of Club for Growth, said:
Club for Growth urges conservatives to support Rep. Chip Roy to become the next U.S. House Republican Conference Chair. The choice is simple — Roy is a proven and principled conservative while Rep. Elise Stefanik has a long record that includes supporting big government spending and opposing Trump's tax cuts. It's time for a real conservative with a record like Roy's to serve in leadership to fight Biden and the socialist Democrats and take back the House in 2022.
Roy, who ran by contrasting his conservative voting record with Stefanik's moderate voting record, ultimately lost in a 134-46 secret-ballot vote.
Prior to the vote on Thursday, Trump released a statement endorsing Stefanik over Roy, and claimed Roy "will probably be successfully primaried in his own district."
Stefanik similarly has a 43% lifetime conservative rating from the American Conservative Union and a 48% lifetime score from Heritage Action. Roy's score is more than double Stefanik's on both scorecards.
What are the implications?
Writing in National Review, Andrew McCarthy explained the Republican Party, in ousting Cheney and elevating Stefanik, has now placed loyalty to Trump ahead of actual conservative values.
"So here is the problem. The conservative accommodation with President Trump was that, despite misgivings (not only about his character but about his historical Democratic leanings), you supported him because he campaigned on conservative objectives. The rationalization was that even if you could not be confident that he'd deliver on his promises, you knew the alternative — progressive Democrats — would be a catastrophe for the country," McCarthy wrote.
"The idea was that Trump's political fortunes were tied to the advancement of conservative policies. With Stefanik, in stark contrast, the Republican establishment has now elevated Trump loyalty at the expense of conservative objectives. That is not a good deal," he explained.
Cheney, on the other hand, "is a committed conservative," McCarthy wrote.France has banned the use of gender-neutral language in schools, bucking the recent woke culture trend spreading throughout academia around the world.
Gender equality advocates were pushing for full stops in the middle of written words, which they called "midpoints," that would allow both male and female forms of the word to be represented at the same time. The Daily Mail reported, "In French grammar, nouns take on the gender of the subject to which they refer, with male preferred over female in mixed settings."
However, the Academie Francaise or the French Academy, which is the 400-year-old education authority responsible for preserving the French language, shot down the woke proposal. The Academie Francaise declared the overture to be "harmful to the practice and understanding of [French]."
Nathalie Elimas, France's state secretary for priority education, said the proposed gender-neutral changes were "a danger for our country" and "the death knell for the use of French in the world." Elimas added that the use of midpoints "dislocates words, breaks them into two."
Elimas said the changes would push people to learn English, which doesn't gender nouns, instead of French, "With the spread of inclusive writing, the English language—already quasi-hegemonic across the world—would certainly and perhaps forever defeat the French language."
France's education minister Jean-Michel Blanquer told French newspaper Le Journal du Dimanche that the midpoints would present challenges for learning disabilities, including dyslexia.
"In addition, this writing, which results in the fragmentation of words and agreements, constitutes an obstacle to reading and understanding the written word," Blanquer stated. "The impossibility of verbally transcribing texts using this type of writing hampers reading aloud as well as pronunciation, and consequently learning, especially for the youngest."
Despite the decision from the Academie Francaise, a French teacher's union, the SUD Education Union, attacked the ruling and even instructed schools to ignore it.
"SUD Education demands from the Minister that he stop trying to impose his backwardness on the educational community," the statement read. "SUD calls on staff to take no account of these instructions from another time, and to exercise as they wish, depending on professional situations, the full use of their pedagogical freedom."
Top French politicians, journalists, and intellectuals have recently become concerned about woke "out-of-control leftism and cancel culture'' from the United States and how it could affect French culture.
"Emboldened by these comments, prominent intellectuals have banded together against what they regard as contamination by the out-of-control woke leftism of American campuses and its attendant cancel culture," the New York Times reported in February. "With its echoes of the American culture wars, the battle began inside French universities but is being played out increasingly in the media. Politicians have been weighing in more and more, especially following a turbulent year during which a series of events called into question tenets of French society."
French President Emmanuel Macron delivered a speech in October, where he sounded the alarm about "certain social science theories entirely imported from the United States."
"Many of these topics in which France used to excel academically have been undermined and we have abandoned them," Macron said in his speech. "And in so doing, we have left the intellectual debate to others, to those outside of the Republic by ideologizing it, sometimes yielding to other academic traditions…And when I see certain social science theories entirely imported from the United States, with their problems, which I respect and which exist, but which are just added to ours, I say to myself that it is reasonable to make this choice. And so we must, very clearly, re-invest, on a massive scale, in the field of social sciences, history, understanding of civilizations by creating posts, by stepping up dialogue, academic and scientific debate in order not to allow the knowledge, the understanding of Islam as a religion, of the civilization it underpins and its contribution to our country and our continent to become ideological and exclusively political debates."
In October, Blanquer warned that there is a need to fight the ideologies coming from American universities.
"No one has the right to cowardice anymore," Blanquer said, according to the Daily Wire. "There is a fight to be waged against an intellectual matrix coming from American universities and intersectional theses, which want to essentialize communities and identities, at the antipodes of our republican model which, for its part, postulates equality between human beings, independently of their characteristics of origin, sex, religion. It is the breeding ground for a fragmentation of our society and a vision of the world which converges with the interests of the Islamists."American Airlines confirmed Wednesday the company is investigating a Texas pilot who criticized an education plan that introduces critical race theory into his local school district.
What is the background?
After a video went viral three years ago showing teenage students using the N-word at a party in Southlake, Texas, the Carroll Independent School District created the "Cultural Competence Action Plan."
The plan, critics say, introduces elements of critical race theory into public schools.
Southlake Families PAC, which opposes the CCAP, explains the "diversity and inclusion" education plan makes "social justice training" mandatory for all Carroll ISD students and would even "establish a Diversity and Inclusion Week at each CISD campus during the academic year much like the weeks dedicated to 'BLM at School' in Seattle, New York and Philadelphia. The BLM at School program on the BLM website includes a starter kit, list of Demands, 13 Guiding Principles and Curriculum. Included in this kit is a queer and trans-affirming curriculum for all ages and grades, as well as curriculum specifically stated to "disrupt the Western-prescribed nuclear family structure."
What are the details?
Guy Midkiff is a Texas-based pilot who has flown for American Airlines for more than 30 years, according to the Dallas Morning News.
But his employment with the airline may now be in jeopardy after social media users complained that Midkiff was voicing opposition to the controversial cultural awareness plan.
The Morning News reported that Midkiff used social media and a podcast to "documented his opposition" to the CCAP and its supporters. However, activists who support the CCAP claimed Midkiff was harassing people online and repeatedly sought American Airlines' attention over what they thought was problematic conduct.
Southlake Anti-Racism Coalition claimed Midkiff was "harassing" people online, but cited only "unprofessional comments" that voiced opposition to the CCAP.
"Your employee has been harassing students and community members relentlessly for months for speaking out against the racism they experience in our town. From targeting individual minors and accosting our organization, here are just some of his most recent unprofessional comments," the SARC said.
Another Twitter account said, "Hey @AmericanAir, why is this man saying he is a pilot for your airline? He is consistently harassing minority females in Southlake and now is going after our students! SARC stands for the Southlake Anti-Racism coalition and is made up mostly of students. Kids!"
On Twitter, American Airlines' official account responded, "Your comments concern us so please DM the link where it shows the employee comments for us to take a closer look."
What did American Airlines say?
The company said in a statement they are investigating the pilot.
"We are troubled by the allegations made and have launched an investigation into the matter," an American Airlines representative told the Dallas Morning News.A commander in the Space Force has been fired for comments he made during a podcast appearance where he warned that Marxism is infiltrating the United States military, according to a report from Military.com.
Lt. Col. Matthew Lohmeier was the commander of the 11th Space Warning Squadron at Buckley Air Force Base in Colorado. Lohmeier had served in the U.S. Air Force for over 14 years, including being a former F-15C fighter pilot and T-38 Talon jet instructor pilot.
On Friday, Lohmeier was purportedly relieved of his post because he sounded the alarm about Marxism and critical race theory in the military during a podcast appearance where he was promoting his book. Lt. Gen. Stephen Whiting, the head of Space Operations Command, reportedly fired Lohmeier over a loss of confidence in his ability to lead.
"This decision was based on public comments made by Lt. Col. Lohmeier in a recent podcast," a Space Force spokesperson said. "Lt. Gen. Whiting has initiated a Command Directed Investigation on whether these comments constituted prohibited partisan political activity."
Last week, Lohmeier appeared on the "Information Operation" podcast to promote his book about the dangers of Marxism in the military.
"The diversity, inclusion and equity industry and the trainings we are receiving in the military ... is rooted in critical race theory, which is rooted in Marxism," Lohmeier said.
Lohmeier noted that there is a diversity initiative that instructs service members to read the book "So You Want to Talk About Race" by Ijeoma Oluo, which labels the United States as a "white supremacist nation."
Lohmeier claimed that young service members are inundated by a "hyperpoliticized work environment where diversity and inclusion initiatives are being pushed constantly."
"From his perspective as a commander, Lohmeier said he didn't seek to criticize any particular senior leader or publicly identify troops within the book," Military.com reported. "Rather, he said, he focused on the policies service members now have to adhere to to align with certain agendas 'that are now affecting our culture.'"
Lohmeier talked about Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, "I don't demonize the man, but I want to make it clear to both him and every service member this [diversity and inclusion] agenda, it will divide us, it will not unify us."
In February, Austin ordered a 60-day military-wide stand-down to address extremism within the ranks. Lohmeier said he was given a booklet that cited the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol as an example of extremism, but didn't mention any of the riots that erupted across American cities last year in response to the death of George Floyd, which caused between $1 billion to $2 billion in paid insurance claims.
Earlier this month, Lohmeier self-published a book titled "Irresistible Revolution: Marxism's Goal of Conquest & the Unmaking of the American Military," which he says is not political. Lohmeier's book discusses "the impact of a neo-Marxist agenda at the ground level within our armed forces," woke ideology, anti-racism, critical race theory, cancel culture, systemic racism, white supremacy, the military's sudden focus on extremism with its ranks, and diversity training in the military.
A description of "Irresistible Revolution: Marxism's Goal of Conquest & the Unmaking of the American Military":
The book's three-part framework begins with a discussion of the greatness of the American ideal (including the importance of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and the notions of individual and civil liberties), transitions to an examination of the history and overarching narrative of Marxist ideology (specifically Marx's and Engels' Communist Manifesto wherein the oppressor vs. oppressed narrative is developed), and concludes by looking into the ongoing transformation of America's military culture and military policy, while also providing a warning about where the country is headed if we choose to not make an immediate course correction.
The Air Force Academy graduate told Military.com that he consulted with his chain of command, public affairs, and legal counsel about his plans to publish a book and its contents.
"I was apprised of the option to have my book reviewed at the Pentagon's prepublication and security review prior to release, but was also informed that it was not required," Lohmeier said.
"My intent never has been to engage in partisan politics. I have written a book about a particular political ideology (Marxism) in the hope that our Defense Department might return to being politically non-partisan in the future as it has honorably done throughout history," he told the outlet.
Last Thanksgiving, former President Donald Trump saluted the members of Space Force, and spoke directly to Lohmeier. "All of you are pioneers in the newest branch of our armed forces," Trump told Lohmeier.The Israeli Defense Forces successfully duped Hamas terrorists into believing Israeli soldiers would initiate a ground attack in Gaza, drawing the terrorists into underground tunnels before unleashing a massive air campaign on them.
What happened?
Late Thursday night, the IDF began assembling ground forces along the Israel-Gaza border, indicating that a ground assault was imminent into the areas where Hamas terrorists have been launching a barrage of missiles into Israel.
At the same time, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israeli "would exact a very heavy price from Hamas and the other terrorist organizations." Earlier in the day, Defense Minister Benny Gantz called up 9,000 reserve soldiers, according to the Jerusalem Post.
"IDF air and ground troops are currently attacking in the Gaza Strip," the IDF tweeted.
Media outlets across the world then reported the alleged development, including the Washington Post and ABC News, the Jerusalem Post noted. The Post, for example, reported, "Israeli troops have entered the Gaza Strip as conflict with Palestinians escalates, Israeli military says."
Did Israeli ground troops actually invade Gaza?
According to Israeli officials, assembling ground troops near the Gaza border and publicly claiming a ground invasion was occurring was tactical deception.
The intended goal was to provoke Hamas terrorists to enter their underground tunnel system, allowing Israeli forces to systematically target the tunnels and Hamas soldiers.
In total, more than 450 bombs were dropped on more than 150 Hamas targets during the air campaign.
From the Jerusalem Post:
Yes, the IDF had deployed troops along the border, but they did not cross into Gaza. What did happen was in the air where 160 aircraft had assembled for a massive bombing run over the Gaza Strip. Their target was what the IDF called Hamas's "Metro", an underground network of tunnels which Hamas used to store its weapons and to move throughout Gaza hidden from Israeli aircraft. The "Metro" had been built in the years after the 2014 war in the Gaza Strip, also known in Israel as Operation Protective Edge. It was a network of dozens of kilometers of tunnels that crisscrossed Gaza and provided safety from Israeli aerial incursions.
According to reports, due to the deployment along the border and the news coming out in the foreign media of a ground incursion, Hamas and Islamic Jihad sent their first-line of defense into the tunnels to start taking up positions. These were the anti-tank missile teams and mortar squads meant to strike at incoming Israeli ground forces. What these Hamas operatives did not know was that there was no ground offensive. Instead, once they were out of the tunnels, they were exposed to Israeli aircraft. Within minutes, the "Metro" attack went ahead. This led to speculation that the tweet about the ground incursion was intentional and made to get Hamas to believe it was safe to enter the tunnels.
Despite nearly one week of fighting, Israeli officials are not interested in a ceasefire as casualties mount on both sides, the Times of Israel reported.
The Jerusalem Post, however, reported that senior Israeli officials are now urging Netanyahu and Gantz to begin working toward a ceasfire.Democratic Rep. Cori Bush from Missouri delivered a speech on the House floor, where she lauded an infamous Black Lives Matter activist who called for the death of police officers. With the Israel-Gaza conflict making headlines this week, Bush sang the praises of Bassem Masri, a Palestinian-American Black Lives Matter activist who became well-known because of his vitriolic, at times threatening, rhetoric toward cops.
On Thursday, Bush compared the "militarized occupation" in Palestine to St. Louis after the 2014 shooting of Ferguson teenager Michael Brown Jr.
"As a Palestinian, he was ready to resist, to rebel, to rise up with us as our St. Louis community mourned Mike Brown, Jr.'s state-sanctioned murder, and as we demanded an end to the militarized police occupation of our communities," Bush said on the floor of the House of Representatives. "Palestinians know what state violence, militarized policing, and occupation of their communities look like."
"So when heavily militarized police forces showed up in Ferguson in 2014, Bassem and so many others of our St. Louis Palestinian community, our Palestinian siblings showed up too," the far-left Democrat said.
Following the Ferguson shooting, Masri garnered notoriety for malicious messages that he would scream at police officers. Marsi would regularly threaten police officers, and even call for their deaths.
"Coward straight pig out here b****! You gotta go. Your life is in danger homie," Marsi yelled at cops in October 2014, according to KTVI-TV. During one BLM protest, Marsi asked a police officer, "What happens when we take your gun?"
Marsi went down the line of police officers and pointed at each one, "I'm praying for your death and your death and your death and your death."
Masri was one of the BLM activists who popularized the notorious anti-police chant: "Pigs in a blanket! Fry 'em like bacon!"
Marsi, who had 40 arrests for traffic violations, passed away in 2018 from what Bush called a "health crisis."
Bush called for an end to foreign aid to Israel during her speech, "That harassment, that extortion, that brutalization by heavily armed militarized presence in our community, that's what we fund when our government sends our tax dollars to the Israeli military."
The congresswoman suggested using those funds to support St. Louis communities instead.
Earlier this month, Bush praised the "historic" vote to defund the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department and axe nearly 100 police officer positions, despite the city being one of the most violent in the world.Police in Louisville are reportedly investigating a potential hate crime after a disabled army veteran was viciously attacked in a parking lot on Mother's Day.
What happened?
Pamela Ahlstedt-Brown, a disabled Army veteran, told WAVE-TV she was trying to back out of a handicapped parking space at her local Kroger grocery store when she noticed a vehicle parked behind her, preventing her from leaving.
Ahlstedt-Brown said she confronted the passengers inside the vehicle, whom she identified as four young black women in a Dodge car.
"I get out and I say, 'Do you guys need any help?' and she said, 'F*** you, you white b****.' I said, 'Hold on, you don't even know me,'" Brown said. "I said, 'That's fine. If you don't need anything, that's fine. I'll get back in the car,'" Ahlstedt-Brown explained.
That's when Ahlstedt-Brown was attacked, she told WAVE.
"I mean, they were beating me, and I was in a fetal position, covering my face, making sure they didn't get my eyes," she explained.
According to WAVE, strangers in the parking lot — not Kroger security guards — stopped the attack.
More from WAVE:
Brown said she went back to the Kroger on Sunday to speak to LMPD officers and tried to retrieve security footage. Tuesday, her daughter called the police multiple times to obtain security footage to no avail.
"They told her, 'You could have got the video from Kroger the first day.' And then he followed that up with, 'Well, a detective has it, so you can't get it from Kroger.' So which was is it? His response was to hang up on her," Brown said.
Ahlstedt-Brown told WAVE she sustained a broken nose during the attack.
What did police say?
A spokesman for the Louisville Metro Police Department reportedly said detectives are investigating the incident as a possible hate crime.
"We're gonna collect all the evidence, present it in court, and they will decide," a LMPD spokesman reportedly said . "A hate crime is an enhancement, in this case, it's an assault is where we are at at this time. The courts will eventually decide that."
TheBlaze reached out to Kroger about the incident, but did not receive a response as of press time.The Pentagon has confirmed that recently leaked footage of an unidentified flying object vanishing into the Pacific Ocean off the coast of California is authentic. The video of the "spherical" UFO was taken by members of the U.S. Navy in 2019, but leaked online on Friday by investigative filmmaker Jeremy Corbell.
The authentic footage was filmed in the Combat Information Center of the USS Omaha at approximately 11 p.m. on July 15, 2019, off the coast of San Diego, according to Corbell. That is when the crew of the USS Omaha, an Independence-class littoral combat ship, tracked and documented the unidentified aerial phenomenon.
A transcript of the dialogue from members of the USS Omaha during the UFO sighting was published by Mystery Wire, a site "dedicated to reports on Area 51, UFOs, military technology, paranormal, mysteries."
:05 "Took off, bookin' it."
:21 "Break, OMAHA, PINCKNEY, KIDD, RAFAEL PERALTA possibility to launch helo ASAP".
:28 "If it splashes you get a bearing and range.":30 "Yes sir."
:32 "… keep going bro [inaudible]":33 [inaudible]
:36 "… it's windy as f*** out there."
:42 "… got a lotta white water out there. Six foot swells."
:43 "Whoa, it's getting close."
:50 "We have, uh, 31 knots sustained wind topside, gust of 40 [knots]."
:56 "Whoa, it splashed!"
:57 "Splashed!"
:58 "Mark bearing and range."
2019 the US Navy filmed “SPHERICAL" shaped UFOs going into the water; here is that footage www.youtube.com
Corbell claims the U.S. Navy found no wreckage and the mysterious craft was not recovered.
The UFO is believed to be a transmedium vehicle, a craft that is capable of traveling in air and water.
The Pentagon confirmed that the footage of the spherical UFO is real.
"I can confirm that the video was taken by Navy personnel, and that the UAPTF included it in their ongoing examinations," Pentagon spokesperson Susan Gough told The Debrief.
The UFO encounter is being investigated by the Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon Task Force.
USS Omaha US Navy
In April, the Pentagon confirmed that the footage of a pyramid-shaped UFO is legit. That UAP video was also taken by members of the U.S. Navy, this time on the USS Russell in 2019 off the coast of San Diego.
That footage was also leaked online by Corbell, who is best known for directing "Bob Lazar: Area 51 & Flying Saucers," a documentary about a physicist who claims to have worked for the U.S. government at Area 51, where he allegedly reverse-engineered alien spacecraft for the military in the 1980s.
Last December, former President Donald Trump signed the federal omnibus spending bill, which included COVID-19 relief funds and a stipulation that U.S. intelligence agencies and the Pentagon must divulge what they know about UAPs. The Office of Naval Intelligence and its Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force are "required to present senators on intelligence and armed services committees." The government agencies have until June 25 to reveal their findings of the UFOs.The building that housed the Associated Press' Gaza City bureau was destroyed by Israeli military forces on Saturday, prompting questions about why the media organization allegedly rented office space in the same building where Israeli officials said Hamas terrorists operated.
What happened?
According to the Associated Press, Israeli military alerted the high-rise building's owner on Saturday the building would be imminently destroyed. Within an hour of the warning, three missiles struck and completely destroyed the building.
More from the AP:
For 15 years, the AP's top-floor office and roof terrace were a prime location for covering Israel's conflicts with Gaza's Hamas rulers, including wars in 2009 and 2014. The news agency's camera offered 24-hour live shots as militants' rockets arched toward Israel and Israeli airstrikes hammered the city and its surrounding area this week.
...
The building also housed the offices of Qatari-run Al-Jazeera TV, as well as residential apartments. The Israeli military said it targeted the building because it contained assets of Hamas intelligence agencies, which it said were using media offices as "human shields." It did not provide evidence for the claims.
Israel strike in Gaza destroys building with AP, other media www.youtube.com
The Israeli Defense Forces said the building was targeted because it housed "Hamas military intelligence assets."
"After providing advance warning to civilians & time to evacuate, IDF fighter jets struck a multi-story building containing Hamas military intelligence assets," the IDF said. "The building contained civilian media offices, which Hamas hides behind and deliberately uses as human shields."
What was the reaction?
While journalists expressed outrage over the AP bureau being destroyed, others wanted to know why, as the IDF claimed, the AP shared a building with Hamas terrorists.
"Will someone ask the @AP if they were paying rent to a designated terrorist organization or were they accepting a gift from a designated terrorist organization?" conservative radio host Erick Erickson said.
"Are we just going to ignore the fact AP and Al Jazeera worked in the same building as Hamas terrorists?" Steve Guest, an adviser to Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), said.
In response to Piers Morgan calling the airstrike "appalling," conservative writer David Harsanyi said, "You're not appalled that AP shares a building with Hamas?"
What did the AP say?
AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt said he was "shocked and horrified" by the Israeli airstrike.
"We are shocked and horrified that the Israeli military would target and destroy the building housing AP's bureau and other news organizations in Gaza," he said in a statement. "They have long known the location of our bureau and knew journalists were there. We received a warning that the building would be hit."
"This is an incredibly disturbing development. We narrowly avoided a terrible loss of life. A dozen AP journalists and freelancers were inside the building and thankfully we were able to evacuate them in time," Pruitt added. "The world will know less about what is happening in Gaza because of what happened today."A Wisconsin high school teacher was reportedly placed on administrative leave after she was caught on video scolding a student for not wearing a mask. The viral video shows the teacher berating the high school student, calling him a "jerk" and a "dummy."
The video allegedly shows a Poynette High School teacher lambasting the student, "I don't care if you're vaccinated, you little dink. I don't want to get sick and die."
"There's other people you can infect just because you're vaccinated," the teacher is heard angrily saying. "You know what? You're not a special person around here."
"You should hear about how everyone talks about you around here," the unidentified teacher told the teen before insulting him, "You're a jerk!"
"And you need to have respect for other people in your life," the teacher lectured. "You're not a big man on campus, quit walking around here like you have a stick up your butt."
The 28-second viral video was posted on Twitter, where it has over 1 million views in less than 24 hours.
Wisconsin talk show host Vicki McKenna shared a longer clip of the encounter with the caption, "This is the video I talked about on the air today of the WI teacher verbally abusing a student for not wearing a mask while he ate lunch."
"People don't like you! I don't like you," the teacher told the student, and said people are "pretending" to like him.
The student replied, "In a few years, look at me, and then you'll be like, 'Oh hey, I was wrong about him.'"
The teacher responded by laughing off the student's suggestion, "No, in a few years I know exactly where you're going to be because people with your attitude don't get very far. You treat people like crap, and people who treat people like crap don't get very far."
The teacher, who claims to have worked at the high school for 27 years, called the student a "dummy" and told the teen that he is "one of the most disrespectful kids I've ever seen grace the halls of this high school."
The Poynette School District released a statement on Facebook.
"The School District of Poynette is aware of an incident that occurred today, May 11th, 2021, involving a teacher and student at the Poynette High School," Poynette District administrator Matt Shappell said. "The District is initiating an investigation and the teacher involved has been put on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation."
In an email to the Portage Daily Register, Shappell said face masks are required in school buildings and on district-sponsored transportation, but declined to say what the consequences are for students who don't wear masks.Fox News reporter Peter Doocy confronted White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday over the timing of new guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention lifting face mask restrictions for fully vaccinated Americans.
What is the background?
Republicans accused the Biden administration of rolling out new guidance on Thursday — that allows fully vaccinated Americans to return to normal life — to score political brownie points.
"Why today? The science hasn't changed," Sen. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) said.
"While the new mask guidance is encouraging, the CDC and my Far Radical Left colleagues only chose to do this to distract from the consequences of catastrophic policy decisions that have been heard around the world," Rep. Andy Biggs, chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, said.
"Inflation is rising, the Middle East is in shambles, the working class can't fill up their gas tanks, our border is being overrun and the Biden Administration's leadership is nowhere to be found," he added.
What happened at the press briefing?
Not only did Doocy question whether the new guidance was politically motivated, but he confronted Psaki with President Joe Biden's own words in March about lifting pandemic-related restrictions.
In March, Biden accused Texas and Mississippi of "Neanderthal thinking" after those states decided to lift pandemic-related restrictions and rescind mask mandates.
Noting that fewer than half of American adults are fully vaccinated, Doocy asked, "So, what happened to President Biden saying in March that he thought lifting mask mandates before every adult American goes and gets a shot is 'Neanderthal thinking?'"
In response, Psaki said science has been the government's "North Star," and she denied claims that the CDC's new guidance was politically motivated.
Well, first, let me say that the president— our North Star has been listening to the guidance of our health and medical experts and teams, and that's exactly what we're doing in this case. And just to reiterate: The CDC — the doctors and medical experts there — were the ones who determined what this guidance would be, based on their own data, and what the timeline would be. That was not a decision directed by, made by the White House. The White House was informed of that decision, just to give people assurance of that.
Because Psaki did not directly address Doocy's question, the Fox News reporter doubled down, asking again if Biden still believes states like Texas and Mississippi — those that reopened months ago — are guilty of "Neanderthal thinking?"
Pskai, however, did not directly address Biden's words in her response.
Well, again, I would say that even with this guidance that's out there, the guidance is not telling states and localities exactly how they should implement. As you know, there are some localities and states in the country that have higher rates of vaccination than others, some communities that have higher rates of vaccinations than others. And we even know, as this is being implemented, that different localities, businesses will implement it in the way that they feel will help ensure their community is safe.
But I know I am reassured by listening to the guidance of health and medical experts, not political decision-making. So, that's the point we're at now.The FBI has "quietly" admitted that the 2017 shooting by a far-left radical who tried to murder several GOP members of Congress at a baseball field was, indeed, domestic terrorism, The Washington Examiner reported.
Last month, current FBI chief Christopher Wray was confronted by Republican lawmakers over the agency classifying the shooting as "suicide by cop" under a previous director.
What are the details?
The Examiner found in an FBI-DHS report released Friday detailing 85 "FBI-Designated Significant Domestic Terrorism Incidents in the United States from 2015 through 2019" classified the shooting at an Alexandria, Va., baseball field by a supporter of former Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) as "domestic violent extremism."
The description of the event reads:
An individual with a personal violent ideology targeted and shot Republican members of Congress at a baseball field and wounded five people. The subject died as a result of engagement with law enforcement.
The shooting carried out by Illinois man James Hodgkinson left House GOP Minority Whip Steve Scalise (La.) fighting for his life after Hodgkinson shot him in the hip. The crazed Hodgkinson also shot lobbyist Matt Mika in the chest, and struck U.S. Capitol Police Officers Crystal Griner and David Bailey.
In April, GOP Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), who was present at the shooting, revealed during a House Intelligence Committee hearing that the FBI classified the case as "suicide by cop" in 2017. Wenstrup took issue with the classification, and said Republican lawmakers were dismayed by it.
"Director, you want suicide by cop, you just pull a gun on a cop," Wenstrup told Wray. "It doesn't take 136 rounds. It takes one bullet. Both the DHS and the [Office of the Director of National Intelligence] published products labeling this attack as a domestic violent extremism event, specifically targeting Republican members of Congress. The FBI did not."
Earlier this week, Wenstrup, Scalise, and several other GOP members signed a letter to Wray asking the director to conduct a review of how the "suicide by cop" designation was reached by the FBI, and to update the conclusions of the investigation.
The letter notes that were it not for Scalise's security detail (since he is a member of House GOP leadership), there would not have even been any law enforcement present during the GOP Congressional baseball practice. Further, the officers were wearing plain clothes inside an unmarked vehicle — casting immediate doubt on the "suicide by cop" theory.
The Republicans also noted that Hodgkinson had a "potential 'hit list'" in his pocket. The names on that list were GOP Reps. Jim Jordan (Ohio), Mo Brooks (Ala.), Trent Franks (Ariz.), Morgan Griffith (Va.), Scott DesJarlais (Tenn.), and Jeff Duncan (S.C.).China landed a spacecraft on the planet of Mars for the first time in the nation's history, according to a report from official Chinese news outlets.
The technological achievement known as the Tianwen-1 mission was reported by the Xinhua News Agency.
"China has left a footprint on Mars for the first time, an important step for our country's space exploration," Xinhua said.
The Chinese rover would be the only other craft to land on the planet apart from those sent by NASA of the United States.
The unnamed craft carries a rover named Zhurong after the god of fire in Chinese folk tales.
Chinese scientists said part of the reason to explore Mars was to better understand our own planet.
"The purpose is to better protect our Earth itself," Jiao Weixin, a professor of geophysics at Peking University. "I think this is the most fundamental purpose of our deep space exploration."
Earlier in February NASA landed the rover Perseverance safely on Mars after a six month space trip. It was the ninth such trip to Mars from NASA. In April scientists were able to orchestrate the first object to make a controlled flight in the atmosphere of another planet with the helicopter named Ingenuity.
The Soviet Union was also able to land a spacecraft on Mars in 1976 but the mission failed soon after touching down on the planet.
Dean Cheng, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, told the Wall Street Journal that China has pointed political goals for its space program.
"China is presenting itself as an alternative," said Cheng. "With regards to the moon and Mars, that is for political signaling, political demonstrations to show the world who has a more capable technological base, and who has a better political system."
Here's more about the space race between China and the U.S.:Dozens of volunteers answered the call from a frantic mother to look for her 2-year-old son who was missing and possibly kidnapped. Days later, the police arrested her boyfriend and charged him with first degree murder.
Tayler Nicholson stood next to her boyfriend on Friday speaking to KVVU-TV about her missing son, Amari Nicholson, and said that he had been missing for more than two days at that time.
"Panic mode, freaking out, crying, screaming, just, my baby's gone!" she said, describing her emotions.
Nicholson said that she was in Colorado, taking care of her mother after a dog attack, on March 5 when she was notified that her son was missing.
She had left him with her boyfriend at a hotel near the strip in Las Vegas. She said that Rhodes considered her son his stepson.
Terrell Rhodes told KVVU that a woman who said she was the child's aunt had knocked on their door just after 6 a.m. and said she was supposed to take the boy.
"It was a woman saying that she was her baby daddy's sister," said Rhodes, motioning to Nicholson. "And she said she was there to pick up my stepson."
Rhodes claimed that while he called Nicholson to ask if he should release the child to the woman, she took him and ran off.
"This whole story sounds confusing, it sounds like we're lying, it sounds like, it's a whole, just a big confusion," said Nicholson.
She asked that people share social media posts about her son so that they could hopefully find him. Dozens of volunteers canvassed the area for days looking for the child.
Here's the interview with Nicholson and Rhodes:
Mother of missing 2-year-old boy believes son was kidnapped www.youtube.com
Nearly a week later, Rhodes was taken into custody and arrested for first degree murder.
Police said that Rhodes submitted to a polygraph test and allegedly confessed to killing the two-year-old. He reportedly said that the child had urinated in his clothing several times and that Rhodes hit him as a punishment with a closed fist between 3 and 4 times.
"At some point, Amari turned blue and purple in the face and stopped breathing," the arrest report said.
Police claimed that Rhodes had acted suspiciously and that they had discovered blood on a bedroom wall. They also found soiled kids' clothing inside a plastic bag in a closet.
The next day, police found the boy's remains just a few yards from the hotel where they had been staying. They said he was beaten to death and "left in a dumpster."
Police also said that at one point during his arrest, Rhodes allegedly fought with police and was able to grab one of their guns.
"While the arrest was taking place," said Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department Lt. Richard Meyers, "Terrell Rhodes chose to fight with police officers, and during the course of that fight was briefly able to retrieve an officer's firearm."
Carri Howard, Amari's grandmother, told KVVU-TV that she believed Rhodes was physically abusive to her daughter and Amari, but that Child Protective Services didn't want to step in. She said she had photographs of bruises and other signs of abuse.
Rhodes was held without bond.
Here's more about the disturbing incident:A California tree trimmer already behind bars for attempting to kill someone has been charged with multiple murder counts and dubbed a "serial killer."
Authorities say after the suspect was apprehended by a SWAT team last year who found him allegedly trying to kill a man, they were able to link him to the deaths of several people.
What are the details?
Ryan Scott Blinston, 37, has been charged with three murders, two attempted murders, and other charges after authorities linked him to a spate of victims spanning two counties whose throats had been slashed.
The Associated Press reported that Blinston worked for a tree trimming service in northern California in May and June of 2020. Authorities believe that during his stint at the company, Blinston returned to the homes of clients after work was completed and slashed their throats.
The Butte County District Attorney's office referred to Blinston as an "alleged serial killer," saying that a multi-agency investigation found that he was tied to multiple deaths during his tenure with the tree service.
The first victims were Loreen Severs, 88, and her husband Homer Severs, 91, whose throats were both slashed in their home on May 23 — days after hiring the tree service where Blinston worked. Loreen died in the attack, but Homer survived only to die months later of an illness.
Another client of the tree trimming service, Sandra George, 82, was found dead with her throat slashed after Blinson allegedly returned to her home on June 4 after the job was complete and the rest of the crew left.
The next victim was Vicky Cline, 57, an acquaintance of Blinston's who was last seen with him on June 6. That night, Cline's car was destroyed in an arson fire, and DNA evidence links Blinston to the vehicle. Cline's body was discovered in a river a few weeks later, with her throat slashed.
Then on June 14, the Butte County Sheriff's SWAT team showed up at the home of a 50-year-old man whose identity was not released.
The Butte County District Attorney's office described what the SWAT team witnessed:
As the team approached the motorhome, they heard the muffled screams of a man inside and loud banging on the outside of the motorhome. The banging turned out to be Blinston attempting to get into the motorhome with a hatchet. The motorhome resident later told officers he was asleep in his bed when Blinston suddenly attacked him and cut his throat. The resident was able to kick Blinston out of the motorhome and lock the door, but Blinston was attempting to get back in the motorhome when the SWAT team coincidently arrived.
The 50-year-old man was flown by helicopter to a hospital, and he survived the attack.
Fox News reported that Blinston was charged Thursday, and if found guilty, he faces life without parole.An iconic former Jacksonville Jaguars player derailed the social media outrage over a report that the team will sign Tim Tebow while controversial former player Colin Kaepernick continues unsigned.
Supporters of Kaepernick and his anti-police crusade took to Twitter in outrage that Tebow, an outspoken Christian and former quarterback, might join the team at the tight end position. Many claimed it was the latest example of racist discrimination in the the NFL against Kaepernick.
Former wide receiver Jimmy Smith denied that race had anything to do with the decision.
"This is my team. We don't need Colin Kaepernick on our team!" said Smith during an interview with TMZ.
Smith said that Kaepernick would just divide the players in the locker room.
"We need a guy like Tim Tebow, who's a hometown hero who has love for the city anyway!" he added.
"He's going to be a great support for Trevor Lawrence," Smith said, referring to the team's recently drafted quarterback. "Whatever capacity that is, it's going to be a positive rather than a negative."
Smith went on to speak directly to complaints from other players that Tebow received consideration only because he's white.
"I doesn't matter whether you're black or white, what matters is, you got a great example of a player in Tim Tebow. Alright? That's the guy I want to associate with!" he said.
"What has Tim Tebow done to these people?" Smith asked.
He also praised Tebow for his faith and expressed hope that he would help the franchise get back to winning football games.
Smith played 11 seasons for the Jacksonville Jaguars and scored 67 touchdowns while recording 862 catches for 12,287 yards for the team.
Here's the interview with Smith:President Joe Biden's sole administration pick to fail in making it through Senate confirmation has landed a gig in the White House, after all.
CNN reported the Neera Tanden — whose nomination for Office of Management and Budget chief was withdrawn when it became apparent that not enough senators would approve her — is now a senior adviser to Biden.
What are the details?
CNN reported that according to a White House official, "Tanden will begin planning for potential policy changes that could result from the forthcoming US Supreme Court decision on Republican legal efforts to strike down the Affordable Care Act," in her new role.
The outlet noted that Tanden previously worked in the Obama administration. She most recently served as head of left-wing think tank Center for American Progress, and is reportedly "a close ally" of White House chief of staff Ron Klain.
Tanden's OMB nomination was derailed after hearings focused on several of her past tweets, wherein she attacked several of the senators who would weigh in on her fitness for the role.
Tanden hit out at several Republicans in now-deleted tweets, which resurfaced once her nomination was announced.
Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) reminded her during a hearing:
"You wrote that [Sen.] Susan Collins (R-Maine) is 'the worst,' that [Sen.] Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) is a 'fraud,' that 'vampires have more heart' than [Sen.] Ted Cruz (R-Texas). You called [Senate Minority] Leader [Mitch] McConnell (R-Ky.) 'Moscow Mitch,' and 'Voldemort,' and on and on."
But the former OMB pick did not just attack Republicans. She also targeted democratic socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) during the Democratic presidential primary, prompting him to complain to the Center for American Progress at the time.
Tanden apologized to the Senate for "any hurt" that her "rhetoric" and "language" caused, and admitted that she spent months ahead of her nomination deleting social media posts.
The death knell to Tanden's nomination was when moderate Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin (W.Va.) announced that he would not approve her for the role in a Senate that is split 50-50.
Manchin said of Tanden in February, ""I believe her overtly partisan statements will have a toxic and detrimental impact on the important working relationship between members of Congress and the next director of the Office of Management and Budget," he explained. "For this reason, I cannot support her nomination."
Tanden's nomination was withdrawn in early March. OMB deputy director Shalanda Young is currently acting as interim chief until a permanent director is confirmed, The Washington Examiner reported.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) says the mask mandate required on the floor of the lower chamber will remain in place, despite the CDC offering new guidance that fully vaccinated Americans can ditch wearing masks in most places.
Pelosi argues that not everyone in the House is vaccinated, so the ban stays.
What are the details?
Following the CDC's announcement of the changes on Thursday, CNN asked Pelosi if she would lift the House's mask mandate.
"No," the speaker told the outlet. "Are they all vaccinated?"
Brian Monahan, the attending physician to Congress, issued a memo the same day, writing: "For the Hall of the House: The present mask requirement and other guidelines remain unchanged until all Members and floor staff are fully vaccinated."
The Washington Post noted that Dr. Monahan further states in his update that per CDC guidance, "recovery from natural infection is not equivalent to completion of a vaccination."
Some GOP House members such as Rep. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.), have publicly stated that they will not get the COVID-19 vaccines because they already have antibodies after previously contacting the virus, according to The Washington Examiner.
Rep. Byron Donalds (R-Fla.) told Fox News' Laura Ingraham Thursday night that the House floor mask mandate "should have been gone months ago," telling the host, "Most members are either vaccinated or have antibodies — it's a dumb rule to have."
In a tweet, Rep. Brian Mast (R-Fla.) wrote that Pelosi keeping the mandate in place is "not about science. It's all about power."
A group of 34 Republicans sent Pelosi a letter first obtained by The Daily Caller on Thursday, calling on the speaker to lift the mandate following the guidance.
"CDC guidance states fully vaccinated people no longer need to wear a mask or physically distance in any setting except where required by governmental or workplace mandate," the letter reads. "It is time to update our own workplace regulations. Every member of Congress has had the opportunity to be vaccinated, and you have indicated about 75 percent have taken advantage of this opportunity."
Members who violate the House mask mandate face a $500 fine for the first offense, and $2,500 for a second offense.
Anything else?
Meanwhile, Senate Republicans have celebrated the CDC's changes by tossing their masks, although most were seen continuing to wear the coverings in the chamber on Thursday.
The Hill reported that Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) were seen pulling off their masks and yelling "freedom" after they stepped off an elevator together following the CDC announcement.
Following the final vote for the week, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) was seen walking maskless after leaving the Senate chamber, saying out loud: "Free at last."Gun control activist David Hogg faced an onslaught of online ridicule and mockery over his admission that he will continue wearing a mask despite the CDC reversal on their necessity.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced on Thursday that Americans who were fully vaccinated no longer needed to wear a mask in order to stop the spread of the coronavirus. While many celebrated the loosening of restrictions, some on the left responded with stunned incredulity.
Others like Hogg said they would continue wearing masks despite the new guidance from the CDC.
"I feel the need to continue wearing my mask outside even though I'm fully vaccinated because the inconvenience of having to wear a mask is more than worth it to have people not think I'm a conservative," said Hogg.
"I feel like this is something you can especially understand if you're in a very liberal area where 99% of the people you see are wearing masks," he added in a second tweet.
Hogg's tweet was met with immediate and fierce backlash from those who saw it as a naked admission that wearing a mask was performative virtue signaling.
"Sick burn man, hope peddling pointless ideological division is fun for you," responded conservative activist Benji Backer.
"Masking was always about political signaling for a big chunk of team blue, and their incessant lying about it until now should not be forgotten," replied radio host Buck Sexton.
"So what you're saying is you're going to continue this performative bulls*** despite science saying otherwise, not because you care about protecting people, but because your 'moral superiority' needs to be constantly validated? sounds about right for a lib like you," replied a Twitter user.
"Because you're afraid the way people would treat you if they thought you're a conservative? This should make you think about how 'tolerant' Democrats are," said another user.
Among those on the left expressing trepidation at the revised CDC guidance was MSNBC host Rachel Maddow who said she would need to "rewire" herself to accept unmasked Americans as no longer a threat to her health.
Here's more about the new CDC rules:Judge Judy Sheindlin is the latest celebrity to rally against cancel culture. The massively popular TV judge warns that outrage mobs and cancel culture have made America a "frightening place."
During a recent interview with the Hollywood Reporter, Sheindlin was asked, "As someone who's openly defied the 'PC police' throughout her career, what is your take on the trend of people being shamed for past comments?"
Judge Judy acknowledged that people who have done legit wrongdoings should have to pay a penalty, but to silence people for freely speaking their authentic opinions sets a dangerous precedent.
"If you're a bad person, if you've done something wrong, you've got to be prepared to pay the piper," the tough-talking law and order judge said. "And there are people who have done just that. They've paid the price with their good name, their footprint. That's a good thing.
"But to have a fear of speaking your opinion, for fear of being put on somebody's list and canceled," Judge Judy proclaimed. "It's a frightening place for America to be."
Judge Judy then circled back to the political correctness police part of the question, "And you're right. I'm not a big fan of the PC police."
"Is it PC to say to people who are 19 or 23 years old, have no job, no prospects and six children, 'Find something else to do with that organ?' No. But where I come from, I've seen the ravages of that kind of neglect."
Judge Judy, who has a net worth of $440 million, is ending her prolific 25-season run as the star of "Judge Judy" this year. But the 78-year-old judge isn't hanging up her gavel and robe just yet, she begins production on a new arbitration-based reality show titled, "Judy Justice," this summer on streaming video channel IMDb TV.
"Look, I do what I do," she said of the new endeavor. "So within the confines of me doing what I do, we'll be changing some of the things around me. But I'm not becoming a ballet dancer."
Other celebrities who have rebelled against cancel culture:
Sharon Stone rails against cancel culture: 'Stupidest thing I have ever seen'
Bill Maher blasts cancel culture as 'Stalinesque,' warns woke 'brats' control the media
Legendary rocker Roger Daltrey blasts woke culture: 'Miserable world they're going to create'
Billy Crystal says comedy in the age of cancel culture is 'becoming a minefield' — and the woke mob lines up to blast him
Sex Pistols' Johnny Rotten says cancel culture, political correctness is about to ruin America
Eminem strikes back at cancel culture with new video guaranteed to enrage his Gen Z detractors
Comedian and actor Jamie Kennedy blasts cancel culture: 'There's no forgiveness any more'
'Mr. Bean' star Rowan Atkinson blasts cancel culture: 'Medieval mob roaming the streets looking for someone to burn'The state of New Jersey will not lift its indoor mask mandate despite new guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that says it's safe for vaccinated people to stop wearing face coverings indoors and outdoors.
"We will keep our indoor mask mandate in place in public settings as we continue to work toward our vaccination goals," Gov. Phil Murphy (D) said in a tweet thread Friday. "To be clear, we're making incredible progress, but we're not there yet."
The CDC on Thursday issued new guidance telling Americans who have been vaccinated against COVID-19 that they no longer need to wear masks or social distance because they have been immunized from the virus.
"Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing,'' CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said. "If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic.''
In response, at least 10 states immediately adjusted their mask mandates, including Connecticut, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Washington.
But though New Jersey is "top ten in vaccinations" and "top five in lowest case count," Gov. Murphy said the indoor mask mandate will remain in place because White House chief medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci said there's a chance infections could increase if states stop requiring face coverings.
"Dr. Fauci himself said yesterday that he thinks lifting indoor mask mandates at this time could lead to a rise in infections," Murphy said. "So we're not going to let up for the next few weeks as we keep pushing forward on our statewide vaccination goals."
Murphy is referring to comments Fauci made on CNN Thursday during the first interview he gave after the CDC issued its new guidelines.
Host Jake Tapper asked Fauci if local and state governments should drop their mask mandates for people who are fully vaccinated.
"Well, for people who were vaccinated, that's another story. But the problem they're going to find, Jake, from a public health standpoint, since you can't completely validate that someone's vaccinated except depending upon them telling you that if you drop the mask mandate, then you might have an increase in infection among those who are not vaccinated," Fauci replied. "So that's the kind of dicey situation that you're in when you're trying to deal about policy at the local level when you have a high degree of transmission. That's not an easy decision to make."
Fauci reiterated to Tapper that the federal government will not mandate so-called "vaccine passports" — a requirement that vaccinated Americans show proof they've gotten their shots before being allowed to go out in public without masks or social distancing. He did predict, however, that some private businesses may choose to adopt a similar policy requiring some form of proof of vaccination before servicing customers.
If they don't, "you're going to be depending on people being honest enough to say whether they were vaccinated or not and responsible enough to be wearing a vaccine -- excuse me, a mask, not only for their own protection, but also for the protection of others," Fauci said.
New York, like New Jersey, will not immediately lift its mask mandates, with Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) announcing the state will review "the facts and the science" before implementing the CDC's new recommendations.While many people were ecstatic that the new Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines could mean a step toward returning to a normal life, MSNBC host Rachel Maddow found an issue with the new CDC recommendation and stereotyped unmasked Americans as "threats."
"If you're vaccinated, it's OK to take off your masks now, indoors and out," Maddow said of the CDC's new coronavirus guidance, and then asked her liberal audience, "Really? Are you sure? How sure are you?"
"This is a big change," the leftwing cable host said on Thursday's "The Rachel Maddow Show." "We're going to have changing norms, and we have to give each other space to have feelings as we go through what's going to be a big change that's going to create a lot of visceral reaction in a lot of us just in our day-to-day lives. Just big day, big change."
Maddow then explained how the unmasking of fully vaccinated Americans would affect her personally.
"Part of it is that I feel like I'm going to have to rewire myself so when I see somebody out in the world who doesn't have a mask I don't instantly think, 'You are a threat,'" Maddow declared. "Or, 'You are selfish' or, 'You're a COVID denier and you definitely haven't been vaccinated.' I mean, we're going to have to rewire how we think about each other because the CDC's guidance."
"That means as we change as a country we're going to look at each other differently and unwire our preconceptions about what a mask or lack of a mask means," Maddow said.
Maddow interviewed CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky during her show, where the TV host again talked about her trepidations about the new guidelines from the health agency.
"I am very nervous about what you said today. It is hard for me to imagine myself, you know, waltzing into the Stop and Shop tomorrow morning and not wearing a mask," Maddow told Walensky. "I just feel I'm not wired that way anymore and it still feels – it still feels risky."
Walensky responded to Maddow by telling her to believe the science.
"There's an extraordinary amount of evidence now that demonstrates the vaccines are working in the real world, in cohort studies, in care facilities, across all states, that these vaccines are working the way they worked in the clinical trials," Walensky told the cable talk show host. "Importantly, there's also new data just even in the last two weeks that demonstrates these vaccines are working against the variants that we have circulating here in the United States, and also data has emerged that has demonstrated that if you are vaccinated, you are less likely, not likely to asymptomatically shed the virus and give to it others."
"So, it is this coalescing of all the evidence now that tells us really, it is safe to take off your mask," the health official said.
Maddow acknowledged, "The previous CDC guidance on where and whether Americans can safely take off their masks was honestly really confusing and hard to explain."
Maddow isn't the only MSNBC host questioning the CDC. Joy Reid previously said that she won't listen to the experts and will continue to wear two face masks while jogging despite being fully vaccinated.Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra told a House committee this week that there is no law outlawing the practice known a partial-birth abortion.
Becerra's assertion likely came as a surprise to his boss, President Joe Biden, who voted for the law when he was a U.S. senator, and to the Supreme Court, which upheld the partial-birth abortion ban in 2007.
What did he say?
During testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee's health subcommittee Wednesday, Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-Fla.) pressed Becerra on whether the Biden administration would uphold the ban. The lawmaker also asked the secretary if he believed the practice to be illegal, the Christian Post noted.
Becerra responded by denying that a legal ban on partial-birth abortion even exists.
"We will continue to make sure we follow the law," Becerra said. "With due respect, there is no medical term like 'partial-birth abortion,' and so I would probably have to ask you what you mean by that to describe what is allowed by law. Roe v. Wade is very clear. It's settled precedent, a woman has a right to make decisions about her reproductive health, and we will make sure that we enforce the law and protect those rights."
Bilirakis didn't let the secretary off easily and asked if he agreed with the ban on partial-birth abortion, to which Becerra responded, "There is no law that deals specifically with the term 'partial-birth abortion.' We have clear precedent in the law on the rights that women have to reproductive health care" (emphasis added).
Rep. John Joyce (R-Pa.) confronted Becerra on his claim that there is no law banning partial-birth abortion, pointing out that the actual section of U.S. Code dealing with the topic is titled "Partial-birth abortions prohibited."
Becerra ignored the language of the statute and responded by saying that though the term "partial-birth abortion" is "recognized in politics, it is not a medically recognized term."
He added that the focus should be on the "reproductive rights" and refused to even acknowledge the existence of the partial-birth abortion ban.
Ignored the facts
Becerra was clearly (and purposefully) ignoring the law that is on the books — and the fact that his boss, President Biden, voted for the bill in 2003, sending it to President George W. Bush's desk for his signature.
He also ignored the fact that the Supreme Court in 2007 ruled the ban is constitutional.
The relevant portion of the law — 18 U.S. Code § 1531 - Partial-birth abortions prohibited — not only uses the term "partial-birth abortion" in its title, but it also employs the term in the text of the law — and even provides a definition for the term, helping to avoid confusion or attempts to pretend it doesn't exist:
(a)Any physician who, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, knowingly performs a partial-birth abortion and thereby kills a human fetus shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both. This subsection does not apply to a partial-birth abortion that is necessary to save the life of a mother whose life is endangered by a physical disorder, physical illness, or physical injury, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself. This subsection takes effect 1 day after the enactment.
(b)As used in this section—
(1)the term “partial-birth abortion" means an abortion in which the person performing the abortion—
(A)deliberately and intentionally vaginally delivers a living fetus until, in the case of a head-first presentation, the entire fetal head is outside the body of the mother, or, in the case of breech presentation, any part of the fetal trunk past the navel is outside the body of the mother, for the purpose of performing an overt act that the person knows will kill the partially delivered living fetus; and
(B)performs the overt act, other than completion of delivery, that kills the partially delivered living fetus;Three New York City subway riders were slashed in separate incidents within 12 minutes of each other early Friday morning — and the head of the city's transit system is blaming Mayor Bill de Blasio for "negligence" in the matter, WABC-TV reported.
What are the details?
Police told the station the attacks began at 4:25 a.m., when a 44-year-old man was slashed in the face on a southbound 4 train at the 14th Street Union Square station.
Minutes later, a 40-year-old man was slashed in the face at the Astor Place subway station, WABC said, adding that a 41-year-old man — possibly trying to help the victim — was punched during the incident.
At 4:37 a.m., a 44-year-old man was slashed in the back of the head in a robbery, the station said.
All the slashing victims were taken to hospitals with non-life-threatening injuries, WABC reported.
Who are the suspects?
The suspects are described as two black males in their 20s, the station said, adding that police are working on linking two people being questioned in regard to the attacks and isolating video of them in the hopes of releasing it later Friday.
Another attack
A fourth incident is also under investigation as possibly connected to the other attacks, WABC said.
At 5 a.m. a 48-year-old homeless man made contact with police and said he was on a northbound D train overnight when he was jumped by three men, the station reported.
The man said one attacker stabbed him once in the right eye and once in the left side of his neck and his cheek, WABC said, adding that he suffered two slashes on his back.
The station said the man is in stable condition at Lincoln Hospital where detectives were interviewing him. He lives at a homeless shelter at 161st Street and Park Avenue in the Bronx, WABC said.
Mayor Bill de Blasio's 'negligence'
NYC Transit Interim President Sarah Feinberg called out de Blasio in the wake of the attacks, in particular his "negligence," the station said.
According to WABC, Feinberg said all the attacks "seemingly could have been prevented by a uniformed presence on each of these platforms. The responsibility for these vicious attacks does not fall on an already strapped police department. It falls on City Hall and the individuals who are taking advantage of the mayor's negligence on the issue. If he needed a wake-up call, this is it. Enough is enough. The mayor is risking New York's recovery every time he lets these incidents go by without meaningful action."
What did the mayor's office have to say?
The station said Bill Neidhardt, a spokesperson for de Blasio, issued the following response: "New York City is surging over 500 officers on top of a 2,500-strong transit force to fight subway crime. The city has pulled cops off desk duty and put them on platforms and trains. We're going to keep putting massive resources into this fight to keep our subways safe. Meanwhile, the MTA sends out statements that point fingers and talk about mayoral politics. Get with the program; help us fight back this crime."Trader Joe's on Friday became the first major U.S. retailer to drop its mask requirement for fully vaccinated customers after the CDC said it was safe for vaccinated Americans to ditch their masks.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday issued new guidance that said fully vaccinated Americans are no longer recommended to wear masks indoors or outdoors, except where local regulations or businesses require them. In response, Trader Joe's updated its COVID-19 policies to comport with the CDC's new recommendations.
"We encourage customers to follow the guidance of health officials, including, as appropriate, CDC guidelines that advise customers who are fully vaccinated are not required to wear masks while shopping," the company said.
A spokesperson for Trader Joe's told USA Today that customers will not be required to show proof of vaccination to enter their stores without a mask. Employees are still required to wear masks for the time being.
Other major U.S. retailers, including Walmart, Target, and Home Depot, are still requiring customers to wear masks, even if they have been fully vaccinated.
Target said in a statement the company "will continue to require all of our coronavirus safety measures in all stores, including masks and social distancing" while they review the new CDC guidance.
Walmart credited mask-wearing requirements with mitigating the spread of COVID-19 in its stores in a statement saying the requirements will not be lifted.
"We serve millions of Americans every week and believe our policy of requiring associates and customers to wear masks in our stores has helped protect them during the pandemic, and we're not lifting those measures at this time," the company said.
Pharmacies like CVS and Walgreens have elected to keep their mask mandates in place because they provide COVID-19 vaccinations, reasoning that unvaccinated people who come to get the vaccine still have a chance of carrying the virus.
"As a destination for COVID vaccine and testing we have decided to keep our current face covering policy in place for the time being," said Walgreens spokeswoman Emily Hartwig-Mekstan in a statement. "The safety of our team members and customers is our top priority and will continue to guide our decision process."
Labor unions criticized the CDC's new guidance and demanded clarity on how store workers are supposed to enforce the new requirements.
The CDC "fails to consider how it will impact essential workers who face frequent exposure to individuals who are not vaccinated and refuse to wear masks," United Food and Commercial Workers' union President Marc Perrone told USA Today.
Perrone complained that store workers "are still forced to play mask police for shoppers who are unvaccinated and refuse to follow local COVID safety measures" and wondered how they are expected to be "vaccination police" as well.
"Vaccinations are helping us take control of this pandemic, but we must not let our guard down," Perrone said. "As one of America's largest unions for essential workers, UFCW is calling on the CDC and our nation's leaders to clarify how this new policy will be implemented, how essential workers will be protected, and how these workers will protect the communities they serve."House lawmakers have reached a deal to create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate the Jan. 6 "domestic terror attack on the United States Capitol" and to recommend changes to protect the building in the future.
House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.) announced the legislation to create the commission on Friday, which will be co-sponsored by committee ranking member Rep. John Katko (R-N.Y.).
"There has been a growing consensus that the January 6th attack is of a complexity and national significance that what we need an independent commission to investigate. I am pleased that after many months of intensive discussion, Ranking Member Katko and I were able to reach a bipartisan agreement," Thompson said.
The commission will be responsible for studying the facts and circumstances that led to the events of Jan. 6, when supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building in an attempt to stop Congress from certifying the Electoral College results and declaring President Joe Biden the winner of the 2020 election. Rioters trespassed in the Capitol building and assaulted several Capitol Police officers during the day's events. One woman, Air Force veteran Ashli Babbitt, was shot by Capitol Police and later died of her injuries.
The makeup of the Jan. 6 commission will be similar to the 9/11 commission, featuring 10 commissioners, five Republicans and five Democrats, who will be appointed by House and Senate leaders in both parties.
"Commissioners must have significant expertise in the areas of law enforcement, civil rights, civil liberties, privacy, intelligence, and cybersecurity. Current government officers or employees are prohibited from appointment," Thompson's announcement said.
The commission will have the authority to issue subpoenas in the course of its investigation with joint agreement between the chair and vice chair or a vote by a majority of commission members.
A final report on the commissions findings and recommendations to prevent a future attack on the Capitol will be due by Dec. 31, 2021.
"Inaction – or just moving on – is simply not an option. The creation of this commission is our way of taking responsibility for protecting the U.S. Capitol. After all, the Capitol is not just a historic landmark, it is where our constituents come to see their democracy in action," Thompson said. "As such, we owe it to the Capitol Police and all who enter our citadel of democracy to investigate the attack. The timing of this action is particularly poignant with this being National Police Week, when we honor those who gave their lives to protect us."
Katko praised the agreement in a statement.
"Unfortunately the Capitol remains a target for extremists of all ideologies, as we also witnessed during the April 2 attack that took a Capitol Police officer's life. That's why we must do everything we can to ensure nothing like this can ever happen again," Katko said. "An independent, bipartisan commission will remove politicization of the conversation and focus solely on the facts and circumstances surrounding the security breach at the Capitol as well as other instances of violence relevant to such a review."
However, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) expressed concerns with the legislation shortly after it was announced, telling reporters that he hadn't approved the agreement and wasn't aware the announcement would be made Friday morning.
"That's very concerning to me," McCarthy said after a reporter informed him the commission's scope would be limited to the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol.
""You've got to look at what the build-up before and what has gone on afterwards, otherwise the commission does not work," he added.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement it is "imperative that we seek the truth of what happened on January 6 with an independent, bipartisan 9/11-type Commission to examine and report upon the facts, causes and security relating to the terrorist mob attack."Disney World in Orlando, Florida, might soon permit fully vaccinated patrons to pass on masks while on park properties, Insider reported Friday.
What are the details?
On Thursday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that fully vaccinated Americans can return to life without masks both indoors and outdoors.
In response to the news, Disney CEO Bob Chapek said that he expected to see an "immediate" increase in visitors following the announcement of the new pandemic guidelines.
As such, the company indicated that it may lift its private mask mandate following the update.
Chapek, who made the remarks during a company earnings call on Thursday, did not specify when the company would change the requirement, but pointed out that the announcement is "very big news" for the company and believed it would serve as a "catalyst for growth in attendance."
Further, such move would "make for an even more pleasant experience" for visitors and employees alike.
According to Forbes, the announcement has also reportedly prompted the parks to "imminently raise their capacity."
At the time of this reporting, Disney theme parks require all guests to wear face coverings at all times — including when outdoors — unless they are actively eating or drinking.
The Orlando Sentinel on Thursday reported that Chapek said, "Anybody [who has] been in Florida in the middle of summer with a mask on, that can be quite daunting, so we think that's going to make for an even more pleasant experience. You're going to see an immediate increase in the number of folks that we're able to admit into our parks, through our reservation systems that we recently implemented, so we're very, very excited about that."
A spokesperson for the company told CNN's Natasha Chen that the company will issue updated guidance following the CDC's announcement "as soon as is practical."
"Today's guidance from the CDC allowing fully vaccinated individuals to remove masks and the removal of physical distancing requirements is extremely positive news and as soon as is practical we will implement updated guidelines across our businesses."
What else?
In Thursday remarks, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said, "Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing. If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. We have all longed for this moment, when we can get back to some sense of normalcy."Daytime TV host Wendy Williams said that "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" cancellation was not unexpected because television "exposes you for the person that you really are."
What are the details?
"The Wendy Williams Show" host said that DeGeneres is leaving not because she felt like retiring, but because of the hostile and toxic workplace claims that surrounded the show over the past year.
During her Thursday "Hot Topics" segment, Williams said, "Nineteen years is a very good run, congratulations to you, Ellen. All you've been through all those 19 years, including the workplace conditions, which ... by the way, I believe she's leaving because [of] the workplace conditions. You know? I mean, we all know people who've worked there."
Williams pointed out that during her time as a daytime talk show staple, DeGeneres revealed her true self.
"Here's the thing, I'm glad that you thanked your 'Ellen' fans, or whatever you call your 'nation.' But 19 years on TV doesn't ... change your life. It exposes you for the person you really are."
"I'm not sure all the guests are happy," Williams added. "I was a guest. I wasn't happy. ... People called me out on it before I was able to say anything about it. I don't know whether she told her current staff, though. She seems like the type of person who could come out on stage and announce it to everybody."
What else?
Earlier this week, a former producer for DeGeneres' show recalled the toxic environment to which employees and guests — save for prolific celebrities — were reportedly subjected.
Two-time Emmy Award-winning producer Hedda Muskat told the Australian show "Sunrise" that she believes DeGeneres "duped" her fans and viewers into believing that she is a "nice person."
"The viewers have spoken," Muskat said of the show's cancellation. "Her ratings have been in the toilet for a long, long time now, her show has not been fun, it has not been interesting, and she's not, really, by the way, stepping down. The viewers fired her."
She added, "I feel that the viewers feel duped, in a way, that she's not this nice person. The viewers are not going to put up with the backstage racism that goes on and the backstage bullying that goes on. So I think the viewers have woken up, finally."
Muskat concluded, "I'd like to see her work on a farm where she can relate with all of the animals, and the pets, and the dogs, and the cows, and the pigs, because she can relate to animals far more than she does with people."
Following the reports, DeGeneres told Savannah Guthrie on NBC's "Today" that she was not concluding the show because of the workplace allegations.
"If I was quitting I would not have come back this year. I really did think about not coming back. It was devastating. I am a kind person. I am a person who likes to make people happy. I just kept saying to Portia [de Rossi, ] if I was a fan of somebody and even if I wasn't, I would think there must be some truth to it because it's not stopping," DeGeneres insisted. "Right on the heels of that, I read in the press that there was a toxic work environment. I had no idea. I never saw anything that would even point to that."
She also suggested that the allegations could have been "orchestrated."
"I thought something was going on because it was too orchestrated. It was too coordinated. People get picked on but for four months straight for me," DeGeneres insisted. "And then for me to read in the press about a toxic workplace environment when all I've ever heard from every guest that comes on the show is what a happy atmosphere this is and what a happy place it is."Parents of children who attend Loudoun County Public Schools in Virginia have launched a new ad campaign to fight the teaching of critical race theory in their schools and oust the school board.
Elicia Brandy and Cheryl Onderchain, two mothers of children in the school district, were interviewed on "Fox & Friends" Friday about their efforts to recall six members of the school board. Loudoun County schools are embroiled in controversy as fed-up parents have objected to pornographic material being read in the 9th grade curriculum and tenets of critical race theory being prioritized while the district has been slow to reopen for in-person learning.
"I really believe that our school board has really lost their way," Brandy told "Fox & Friends" host Steve Doocy. "For this reason and for adding the parents who want our kids to go back to school to a hit list, but also yes. I don't want critical theory, not just critical race theory, but critical theory taught in our classrooms.
"Our schools are not for ideology, our schools are for education. And when you lower education you lower positive outcomes for everyone," she added.
The "hit list" Brandy referred to was a list of parents who objected to the school district's "equity" agenda compiled by a group of current and former teachers who joined a private Facebook group called "Anti-Racist Parents of Loudoun County." The Daily Wire first reported the group's efforts to "infiltrate" and use "hackers" to silence parents' communications and "expose these people publicly" last March. A criminal investigation has been opened to review the matter.
"We started going to school board meetings wanting our children to go back to school," Brandy explained. "And when we started speaking about that and about critical theory, one of our school board members called for the Parents Against Anti-Racism to rise up and help her and they decided to put go together a hit list which called for calling us racists and doxxing us."
The parents would rather have the district prioritize returning children to school for in-person learning than focus on social justice.
"It's been beyond frustrating," Onderchain said. "I want the school to get the politics out of the classroom. We need to get back to basics, the U.S. is falling behind countries like China, we're dumbing down the math curriculum in Virginia, we need to get back to educating kids and to academic excellence and out of the SJW business."
A spokesman for Loudoun County Public Schools told "Fox & Friends" in a statement that "Critical Race Theory is not part of the curriculum being taught to Loudoun County Public Schools' students."
"In explaining LCPS' equity priorities, it might be helpful to state what they are not. They are not an effort to indoctrinate students and staff into a particular philosophy or theory. What they are is an effort to provide a welcoming, inclusive, affirming environment for all students," the spokesman said.
Onderchain dismissed the schools' statement as "word salad."
"When you hear phrases like 'equitable outcomes' and 'equity' thrown into every single policy that your school board puts out ... if it walks like a duck and acts like a duck, it's a duck. Quack, quack," she said.
Brandy added that the parents obtained school documents from a records request that show the district paid $650 per hour for "Critical Race Theory training" from the Equity Collaborative.
"We have presentations from teachers that were sent to us that say 'Critical Race Theory training' books by Ibram X. Kendi which is required reading in at least one of our high schools. So there's a lot of misinformation coming from our leadership," she said.
"But the recall effort is strong. We have parents, 1,000 volunteers, we have 1,800 signatures — we're going to be collecting signatures through the entire summer and going to court leading up to the November elections."The Pentagon is conducting warrantless surveillance of Americans, according to a U.S. senator. A letter written by Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) demands the Department of Defense release information about any government agencies buying location data from "shady" app companies to spy on U.S. citizens.
"I write to urge you to release to the public information about the Department of Defense's (DoD) warrantless surveillance of Americans," stated the letter addressed to Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III.
The letter refers to media reports from February 2020 asserting that "U.S. government agencies are buying location data obtained from apps on Americans' phones and are doing so without any kind of legal process, such as a court order." Wyden writes that he has "spent the last year investigating the shady, unregulated data brokers that are selling this data and the government agencies that are buying it."
Last year, the Wall Street Journal reported that law enforcement agencies were using cellphone GPS data taken from mobile apps without obtaining a warrant first. The article referenced a Treasury Department watchdog report claimed that the Internal Revenue Service was utilizing commercial platforms to track cellphones.
A Vox report from the same time said it wasn't only the IRS that used cellphone data from apps to track Americans, "The military, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) do it, too."
"The location data is drawn from ordinary cellphone apps, including those for games, weather and e-commerce, for which the user has granted permission to log the phone's location," the WSJ reported in February 2020. "U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division of DHS, has used the data to help identify immigrants who were later arrested, these people said. U.S. Customs and Border Protection, another agency under DHS, uses the information to look for cellphone activity in unusual places, such as remote stretches of desert that straddle the Mexican border."
Apps downloaded to a mobile phone send location data to third-party companies that then sell that data to "advertisers, marketers, and data brokers — even other location data providers," and the information could be passed through "several companies before it reaches its end user," which could be government agencies willing to pay for the data.
Sean O'Brien, principal researcher of ExpressVPN's Digital Security Lab, said the practice is akin to "data laundering." O'Brien told Recode. "There are so many actors sharing and selling data that it's incredibly difficult to chase the trail."
One of the companies selling app information to the government was X-Mode Social Inc. Upon the release of the reports of the data broker selling location information of cellphone users to U.S. military contractors, X-Mode's software development kits and location trackers were banned from the Apple Store and Google Play Store, the two biggest app stores in the world. X-Mode's software development kit was used in hundreds of apps with millions of users.
It is illegal for the U.S. government to directly surveil Americans without a warrant under the Fourth Amendment. In 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 to impose limits on the ability of law enforcement "to obtain cellphone data pinpointing the past location of criminal suspects in a major victory for digital privacy advocates," according to Reuters.
But government agencies contend they aren't doing anything illegal since they're "simply buying commercially available data supplied by users who consented for that data to be collected," Vox added.
In January, the New York Times reported on an unclassified memo from the Defense Intelligence Agency that allegedly revealed that DIA analysts "have searched for the movements of Americans within a commercial database in five investigations over the past two and a half years."
"DIA. does not construe the Carpenter decision to require a judicial warrant endorsing purchase or use of commercially available data for intelligence purposes," the DIA memo purportedly said.
Wyden demands that the Pentagon reveal if any other DoD components besides the DIA are "buying and using without a court order location data collected from phones located in the United States."
Vice's Motherboard tech blog reported that one of the answers was classified:
Some of the answers the DoD provided were given in a form that means Wyden's office cannot legally publish specifics on the surveillance; one answer in particular was classified. In the letter Wyden is pushing the DoD to release the information to the public. A Wyden aide told Motherboard that the Senator is unable to make the information public at this time, but believes it would meaningfully inform the debate around how the DoD is interpreting the law and its purchases of data. Wyden and his staff with appropriate security clearances are able to review classified responses, a Wyden aide told Motherboard. Wyden's office declined to provide Motherboard with specifics about the classified answer. But a Wyden aide said that the question related to the DoD buying internet metadata.
This allegation of the government spying on people arrives a month after the bombshell report revealing the United States Postal Service has been secretly collecting data regarding social media posts by Americans.The theory that the novel coronavirus was unleashed upon the world through a laboratory leak must be taken seriously until proven wrong by a data-driven investigation, Reuters reported, citing a group of leading scientists.
What are the details?
The outlet focused on a Friday letter from 18 scientists that was published in the journal Science indicating "more investigation is still needed to determine the origin of the pandemic."
Authors of the letter include Ravindra Gupta, a clinical microbiologist at the University of Cambridge; Jesse Bloom, who studies the evolution of viruses at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center; and David Relman, professor of microbiology at Stanford.
Their letter states that "theories of accidental release from a lab and [animal-to-human transmission] both remain viable," and that "knowing how COVID-19 emerged is critical for informing global strategies to mitigate the risk of future outbreaks."
Lab-leak theory not taken seriously enough
The scientists who penned the letter called attention to the findings of a China–World Health Organization joint study released in November that indicated animal-to-human virus transmission from an intermediate host was "likely to very likely" while a laboratory incident was "extremely unlikely."
However, the letter states that "the two theories were not given balanced consideration. Only 4 of the 313 pages of the report and its annexes addressed the possibility of a laboratory accident" and that WHO Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus said as much while offering "to provide additional resources to fully evaluate the possibility."
The scientists who penned the letter indicated they possess "relevant expertise" on the subject and that they "agree with the WHO director-general, the United States, and 13 other countries, and the European Union that greater clarity about the origins of this pandemic is necessary and feasible to achieve."
"A proper investigation should be transparent, objective, data-driven, inclusive of broad expertise, subject to independent oversight, and responsibly managed to minimize the impact of conflicts of interest," the letter adds. "Public health agencies and research laboratories alike need to open their records to the public. Investigators should document the veracity and provenance of data from which analyses are conducted and conclusions drawn, so that analyses are reproducible by independent experts."
The letter from the scientists ended with kudos to China, saying that "in this time of unfortunate anti-Asian sentiment in some countries, we note that at the beginning of the pandemic, it was Chinese doctors, scientists, journalists, and citizens who shared with the world crucial information about the spread of the virus — often at great personal cost."
Anything else?
The notion that COVID-19 was leaked from a Wuhan, China, laboratory has long been a point of contention. Reports emerged in April 2020 reflecting that very theory.
Former President Donald Trump said last spring he was very confident that the coronavirus originated from a Wuhan virology lab, as did the majority of American intelligence agencies and then-Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
In September, Twitter reportedly suspended the account of Chinese virologist Dr. Li-Meng Yan just hours after she told Fox News host Tucker Carlson that China intentionally manufactured and released the COVID-19 virus.
And just prior to President Joe Biden taking office in January, the U.S. State Department said it had new evidence possibly pointing to the coronavirus coming from a Wuhan lab — and that Chinese lab researchers might have been infected with COVID-19 before the first identified case of the outbreak.Americans celebrated the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's new mask guidelines announcement Thursday that said vaccinated people can return to life without masks.
Except New Yorkers.
Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo declared shortly after the CDC unveiled its new mask policies that the Empire State would not be following the experts' guidance on face masks — at least not yet.
What's going on?
In a Thursday afternoon declaration, the CDC deigned to allow fully vaccinated Americans to return to mask-less, non-socially distanced life.
"Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing," CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said. "If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. We have all longed for this moment, when we can get back to some sense of normalcy."
But Gov. Cuomo wasn't sold on the federal government's science experts' recommendation, the New York Post reported, and had not decided if he would allow his subjects to enjoy normal life.
In a statement issued shortly after the agency's announcement, Cuomo said he and his state government, including Health Commissioner Howard Zucker, would be following "the facts and the science" and would be reviewing the CDC guidelines.
"In New York, we have always relied on the facts and the science to guide us throughout the worst of this pandemic and in our successful reopening," Cuomo said. "We have received the newly revised guidance from the CDC regarding mask wearing and social distancing for those with vaccinations and are reviewing them in consultation with Dr. Zucker and our partners and health experts in surrounding states."
Current New York rules state that fully vaccinated people can go without masks when they are outdoors — except when in crowded areas — but must remained mask indoors, no matter what.
What did one GOP state lawmaker say?
One New York Republican lawmaker, however, was quick to note that Cuomo's record with nursing home COVID-19 deaths should lead people to listen to the CDC instead of the state's leadership.
State Sen. Jim Tedisco (R) said that "our best bet as constituents is to always follow the CDC because we've seen what the 'experts' in New York state have provided," the Post reported.
"I don't think anything this governor says about using experts in New York state is true," Tedisco added. "He's working with people who are basically like working with Moe, Larry and Curly. I'd follow the CDC guidelines any time before following what the governor says."The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention finally eased indoor face mask requirements on Thursday. The new CDC guidance allows vaccinated Americans to not have to wear masks outdoor and in most indoor settings. Following the announcement, President Joe Biden issued his own new "rule" about face masks and coronavirus vaccinations, which caused a stir on social media, and many lambasted the order as "authoritarian."
The official Twitter account for President Biden posted a video calling for Americans to get "vaxxed or masked," and had the caption: "Folks, if you're fully vaccinated — you no longer need to wear a mask. If you're not vaccinated yet — go to http://vaccines.gov to find a shot, and mask up until you're fully vaccinated."
The Twitter account for President Biden also posted a proclamation, "The rule is now simple: get vaccinated or wear a mask until you do. The choice is yours."
There was an immediate backlash to Biden's "rule." Twitter reactions labeled the order as unconstitutional, and said the ultimatum wasn't really a "choice."
BlazeTV host Glenn Beck hurled back, "Hey #POTUS - the rule is simple. Kindly, screw off. You will find the rules in a little read document called 'the constitution'. The sequel is even better. You can find it on line under 'The Bill of Rights'. You and your authoritarian pals will find it a quick read."
Rep. Thomas Massie (R-K.Y.) countered the president on Twitter, "Show us in the Constitution where you have this power Mr @POTUS. (You don't)."
Rep. Paul Gosar (R- Ariz.) stated, "Men must be governed by God or they will be ruled by tyrants."
Rep. Justin Amash (I-Mich.) retorted, "Requirement to do one or the other of two things demanded by another person, against your will, is not called a choice; it's called coercion, and we reject it in a free society."
Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.) reacted by saying, "No. 1) The federal government can't force you to wear a mask until you're vaccinated, 2) it would also have no way of tracking vaccinations, and 3) this doesn't account for natural antibodies."
BlazeTV host Chad Prather fired back, "Eat s**t Adolph."
Donald Trump Jr tweeted, "Um, team Biden, Joe somehow got a hold of his Twitter account and is talking all crazy again."
Actor Rob Schneider snapped back, "The rule is even simpler, YOU are an elected official of a Republic, not a doctor or Russian Czar, therefore it is the citizens who will make THEIR OWN HEALTH DECISIONS FOR THEMSELVES AND FOR THEIR FAMILIES. The CHOICE IS INDEED FOR EACH AND EVERY FREE AMERICAN AS THEY SEE FIT!"
Conservative comedians the Hodge Twins pointed out, "Choice is a decision between a several options. An ultimatum is a final demand of terms, the rejection of which will result in retaliation or a breakdown in relations. Dictators and their sheep usually can't tell the difference because you're idiots."
Conservative activist Scott Presler explained, "The rule is simple: the government has no authority to tell me how to live as a private citizen & I'm not forced to disclose my health. We can defeat this authoritarian gov't by electing more leaders, like Ron DeSantis."
Sebastian Gorka, the former deputy assistant to former President Donald Trump, quipped, "My body. My choice buster."
Cultural critic James Lindsay replied, "We have replaced 'mean' tweets with nakedly authoritarian ones. This is fine."
Mediaite senior columnist John Ziegler responded by saying, "If Trump had been pro-mask from the start & said this now, the woke crowd would be taking to the streets. This is clearly a move to help the mask cult accept this new edict by making them feel better knowing they can still feel morally superior to, & be allowed to shame, others."
One commenter added, "You nor the government have any sort of authority to force me or any other person for that matter to wear a mask. Plain and simple. Time for bed Joe."
Another person noted, "Biden is vocally tougher on unvaccinated Americans than terrorists who hacked American infrastructure."
Someone wrote, "Imagine what the media would say if Trump tweeted this."
A Twitter user joked, "I 'identify' as someone who is vaccinated."Social media users have come out en masse against the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's new guidance regarding masks, vowing to continue covering their faces indefinitely.
On Thursday, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky announced that fully vaccinated Americans can return to life without masks.
The directive was a full pivot from advice issued earlier in the month.
What are the details?
Many social media users responded to the announcement with concern, and in some cases, outright disdain.
Dr. Jason Johnson, MSNBC political contributor and radio host, wrote, "I will continue to wear a mask in closed buildings and restaurants thank you. [I]t's not an imposition on anyone else or doubting the CDC, it's just added caution."
Dr. Leana Wen, former head of Planned Parenthood and CNN analyst, added, "The CDC has gone from one extreme to another, from over-caution to throwing caution into the wind. By not requiring proof of vaccination, they are essentially eliminating mask mandates & physical distancing. This could DISINCENTIVIZE vaccination."
In response to a Grabien tweet that read, "Mika [Brzezinski] & Joe [Scarborough] both say they'll keep wearing masks on planes despite being vaccinated," the MSNBC host added, "The CDC says it as well. Probably a smart thing to do now, and a good idea to keep a mask on hand in the future if that person in the seat next to you starts the hacking and sneezing routine in flu season."
Prominent gun control activist David Hogg added, "I feel the need to continue wearing my mask outside even though I'm fully vaccinated because the inconvenience of having to wear a mask is more than worth it to have people not think I'm a conservative[.]"
Author John Pavlovitz wrote, "I haven't had a cold in 15 months. I'll be wearing a mask."
Another user wrote, "I've been supportive and defensive for the most part of the CDC all along, but this statement is reckless. You're empowering anti-maskers and anti-vaxers. You know, the ones keeping the World from resuming some normalcy and who are continuing to kill others and/or make them ill."
Another added, "At my doctors office there is a sign on the door that says 'You will wear a mask past this door regardless of the current advisories. Put in on or turn around.' Yes!"
One user even said that the move was counterintuitive to protecting children.
"So, are we just actively not protecting the kids anymore?" the user asked in response to the CDC's announcement. "Vaccines were approved for 12+ just days ago. Getting all that done takes time and what about the rest of them? It may not hit kids as hard, but it still f***ing sucks and can have complications."
"I ain't taking my mask off till we are done," one user proclaimed. "I care about others."
Another user called the science into question, and wrote, "I'll continue to wear my mask because still a lot of people not vaccinated. How can I really know who is vaccinated? How long does the Pfizer vaccine last in body?"
"With so many refusing to vaccinate, how can I feel safe indoors when I see someone without a mask? How to keep our kids safe in these settings? Relying on honor system for my family's health? This is a mistake," one user insisted.
Finally, one user added, "[CDC] said if ur vaccinated and still wear your mask, you're sexy."
What else?
During Thursday's White House press briefing, Walensky said that Americans who have waited two weeks after receiving their second COVID-19 vaccine can return to mostly normal, pre-pandemic behaviors in the vast majority of settings.
In her remarks, Walensky said, “Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing. If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. We have all longed for this moment, when we can get back to some sense of normalcy."
The infectious diseases expert added, "Based on the continuing downward trajectory of cases, the scientific data on the performance of our vaccines, and our understanding of how the virus spreads, that moment has come for those who are fully vaccinated."
Unvaccinated Americans should continue masking and engaging in social distancing, Walensky advised.
“This is an exciting and powerful moment, it could only happen because of the work of so many who made sure we have the rapid administration of three safe and effective vaccines," she proclaimed.
The Associated Press reports that about 154 million Americans — more than 46% of the population — have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. More than 117 million Americans are fully vaccinated."Real Time with Bill Maher" announced Thursday that its host — who is fully vaccinated against COVID-19 — has tested positive for the virus and that his Friday show has been canceled.
The tweet from the HBO show added that Maher "is asymptomatic and feels fine."
"'Real Time' production has taken every precaution following COVID CDC guidelines," the tweet added. "No other staff or crew members have tested positive at this time."
Maher issued his own tweet on the situation:
"Thanks to all wishing me get well — hard to do since I feel perfectly fine, but I appreciate it! Most upset about ending my streak going back to 1993 of never missing a Politically Incorrect or Real Time episode," he wrote. "Oh well, even Cal Ripken had to sit one out at some point."
How did leftists react?
Given that Maher is an atheist and a liberal who regularly skewers conservatives, Republicans, and those who ascribe to religious faith, one might assume that those on the left would be in his corner and wishing him the best.
But Maher of late has been criticizing leftists for their dangerous and misguided behavior and self-inflicted injuries. In fact, on his program just last Friday, Maher went after Democrats for being "fun-suckers" and even compared them to the Republicans of the 1980s and '90s.
Content warning: Language:
New Rule: Sex, Drugs & GOP | Real Time with Bill Maher (HBO) youtu.be
And so, with their familiar brutality on full display, more than a few leftists were quite happy to hear that Maher contracted COVID-19 — and wished him nothing but the worst.
Imani Gandy — an editor for Rewire News Group who boasts over 230,000 Twitter followers — posted the following:
Brianna Wu — executive director of Rebellion PAC — seemed to wish Maher well at the beginning of her tweet. But the sentiment was short lived:
Barbara Malmet — an artist and activist with nearly 250,000 followers — said in her tweet about Maher's positive COVID-19 result: "Karma is a bitch."
Blue-check marked writer Alicia Lutes got cute with her tweet:
Others shared similar sentiments:
A Democrat-supporting Twitter user with about 104,000 followers said, "Bill Maher testing positive for Covid is the only thing positive about him!"
Artist and writer Tony Posnanski, who boasts nearly 225,000 Twitter followers, wrote the following: "I don't believe Bill Maher got vaccinated. I feel that he is a conceited asshole who thought he was smarter than Coronavirus. F*** him."
A blogger offered that Maher "got the vaccine, so odds are he'll be fine... ...unfortunately."
"You should probably just retire. As a leftist I thought I should let you know you're not who you think you are, you're actually just the other side of the Tucker Carlson coin," another commenter said. "You do as much damage to the country as he does."
Anything else?
The following are a few other examples of Maher pulling no punches with his left-leaning brethren:Target has dropped model Chrissy Teigen's cookware line from its offerings as she issued an apology for telling a fellow celebrity to commit suicide when the celebrity was just 16 years old.
In new unearthed tweets and messages, Teigen targeted reality TV star, model, and musician Courtney Stodden with horrific bullying when Stodden — who is now 26 years old — was just 16 years old.
What are the details?
On Thursday, Fox Business reported that Target opted to remove her cookware line.
"The retailer has pulled [Teigen's] Cravings cookware line from its website," Fox Business reported. "However, her trio of Cravings cookbooks remain available on the site."
In a statement, a Target spokesperson told the outlet, "We made the mutual decision in December to no longer carry the cookware line, given our continued focus on brands we develop and that can only be found at Target."
Earlier this week, Stodden revealed that Teigen, now 35, relentlessly bullied her when she was just a teenager.
In one such instance, Teigen, who was in her mid-20s, wrote, "@CourtneyStodden My Friday fantasy: you. dirt nap. mmmmmm baby."
In another instance, she retweeted the model and wrote, "Go. to sleep. forever."
"@CourtneyStodden what drug makes you do that with your mouth?" she tweeted during another occasion. "A]sking for a friend who really wants to look like an idiot. thanks."
She also at one point tweeted, "@CourtneyStodden I hate you."
According to the Daily Beast, Teigen also was said to have sent a private message to Stodden on social media telling her to kill herself.
"[Teigen] wouldn't just publicly tweet about wanting me to take 'a dirt nap' but would privately DM me and tell me to kill myself," Stodden told the outlet. "Things like, 'I can't wait for you to die.'"
Teigen's harassment and that of many others, Stodden told the Daily Beast, came as she faced media criticism for marrying 51-year-old Doug Hutchison in 2011 when she was 16.
Following the revelation, Teigen issued an apology to Stodden, which said, "Not a lot of people are lucky enough to be held accountable for all their past bulls**t in front of the entire world. I'm mortified and sad at who I used to be. I was an insecure, attention seeking troll. I am ashamed and completely embarrassed at my behavior."
"But that is nothing compared to how I made Courtney feel," Teigen continued. "I have worked so hard to give you guys joy and be beloved and the feeling of letting you down is nearly unbearable, truly. These were not my only mistakes and surely won't be my last as hard as I try but god I will try!!"
Stodden revealed in a Thursday Instagram post that Teigen blocked her on social media following the apology.
Stodden wrote, "I accept her apology and forgive her. But the truth remains the same, I have never heard from her or her camp in private. In fact, she blocked me on Twitter. All of me wants to believe this is a sincere apology, but it feels like a public attempt to save her partnerships with Target and other brands who are realizing her 'wokeness' is a broken record."
What else?
Target — though it insisted it dissolved the partnership with Teigen as early as December — had Teigen's merchandise live for sale on its website as late as April 17. The page appears to have been hastily removed that day.
It seems fair to point out that Stodden was vocal about Teigen's treatment back in April — and even earlier in March — though the story only gained traction on much of the internet this week.
Back in April, Stodden shared a video about the purportedly bullying and said that Teigen never apologized for her behavior.
In March, Stodden blasted Teigen for being a "hypocrite" over what Teigen said was her own experience with cyberbullying. The purportedly cyberbullying and overall "negativity" reportedly prompted Teigen to take a very short-lived social media break.Cpl. Keith Heacook. Say his name, because the president of the United States won't utter it, even though this officer was beaten to death in Biden's own home state by a career violent criminal. For that matter, I can't find too many Republicans mentioning this and turning Keith Heacook's murder into the "Back the Blue" version of George Floyd. And in this case, this particular tragedy actually reflects a broader "systemic" ill in our society that requires true "criminal justice reform."
Heacook's murder by an "unarmed" violent career criminal while responding to a 911 call touches upon nearly everything broken in our criminal justice deterrent, which is threatening to endanger the lives of cops and civilians more and more in the coming months.
Just weeks away from retirement, Cpl. Heacook, a Delmar, Maryland, police officer, responded to a 911 call that Randon Wilkerson was beating on roommates in a shared home on Sunday, April 25. Heacook responded to what he clearly knew was a violent situation all alone while it was still dark. As my TheBlaze colleague Sarah Taylor reported at the time, the budget for these small-town police is so small that the officer was forced to respond to a violent situation alone.
Also, because Delmar on the Delaware side is so understaffed, Heacook, who was from Delmar on the Maryland side, in Wicomico County, wound up responding. A retired Wicomico County police officer who spoke with TheBlaze on condition of anonymity said that because the city of Delmar does not have 24-hour service, the Wicomico County Sheriff's Office handles calls and dispatches officers when there is nobody available on the Delaware side. Officers of the Delmar police force have to be sworn in both in Maryland and Delaware.
Based on the information available and from other victims who were later attacked, it appears that Wilkerson somehow overpowered Heacook and allegedly beat him with his own baton and then throat-stomped him while he was on the ground. He later died of his horrific injuries. Wilkerson then allegedly broke into a house across the street and severely beat an elderly couple who gave the original eyewitness account of Wilkerson's attack on Officer Heacook.
It's not clear if Heacook was ambushed or if he confronted Wilkerson head-on, but this likely represents the exact opposite of the Floyd case — a much more common phenomenon — when police go out of their way to use underwhelming force and decline to draw their guns even when confronted alone by a strong and violent criminal. It also demonstrates how often police head into violent situations without a partner because police are already so understaffed and undermanned. This further incentivizes criminals to fight rather than cooperate.
For every single cop who uses too much force, how many use too little force, and how many more are increasingly likely to do so when confronted with black suspects? Heacook's cousin made this point very eloquently at the memorial service Monday.
"If Cpl. Heacook had to take the [bad] actor's life, what would have happened to his life?" asked cousin Larry Schwartz, a former cop himself. "It would've been hell. The media would've been here in full force ... 'Unarmed this, unarmed that' every night without fail."
"Keith would have been placed on administrative leave while the investigation was conducted," he continued. "That investigation would have taken weeks, if not months, to complete. During that time, Keith's life would have been put under a microscope, as it's easy for folks who have no idea about police work. His family would be shunned. Even when Keith was cleared, that does not generate enough news."
One has to wonder if this is what went through his mind and if this is why he hesitated. How many police homicides are the result of such hesitation driven by the politics of mob rule rather than prudent instincts to survive? We will never know because these cases seldom get reported, but they will likely become more numerous as time goes on.
But there is one other important element to this story. As Sarah Taylor reported, Wilkerson had at least 38 arrests but doesn't appear to have served much time in prison. So not only are police understaffed and forced to make arrests alone with insane rules of engagement if the suspect is black, but there are more violent criminals out on the streets than ever before because of "criminal justice reform."
Liberals often want to know why so many encounters that should be peaceful have to turn out deadly. The answer is because repeat violent offenders will turn anything into a deadly encounter, and now police are exponentially more likely to run into them because they are not in jail. The result is that either the cop is forced to shoot them, or, as the Heacook case shows, they will increasingly put themselves in danger against their own survival instincts so their families won't be destroyed by the media and the Black Lives Matter lynch mob.
To this day, there are no follow-up media articles on this story. To this day, Joe Biden has not uttered a word about this police officer who was brutally murdered in his own state. To this day, there are no calls for police reform to make sure police have the manpower, training, and rules of engagement to protect their lives against the growing number of violent criminals. To this day, there is no call to bring back "three strikes and you're out" for criminals who keep reoffending.
In a moral and just society, Keith Heacook, who, unlike Floyd, truly did live an exemplary life, would be remembered by every American schoolchild, and his death would spawn an even greater global movement for true police and criminal justice reform on behalf of victims, not criminals.A parishioner has made headlines after detailing her experience with in-person church services more than a year after the COVID-19 pandemic stopped much of America in its everyday tracks.
What are the details?
Bea L. Hines shared her experience for an article published in the Miami Herald on Friday.
She wrote, "There's just something special about being in the House of God on the Lord's day."
Hines said that she was visiting New Orleans, Louisiana, last week with her goddaughter, her husband — a minister — and their family.
Hines said that the day was also especially important to her because it was Mother's Day and the first time she'd attended in-person services at a church since the beginning of the pandemic.
"Just walking into the sanctuary after so many days of virtual church gave me such a joyful feeling," Hines wrote. "Although I was many miles away from my own church, I felt at home."
Hines said that her home church in the Liberty City neighborhood in Miami has held only virtual services since the pandemic sickened and killed millions of people across the globe.
Hines added that when she entered the New Orleans church, she could "feel the loving warmth" that "even the masks could not conceal."
"Just sitting in a pew inside a sanctuary, smiling at other worshipers behind my mask, raising my hands in praises to God, and singing the beautiful songs of Zion gave me a warm, happy feeling," she wrote. "I was home."
Hines said that in the moment, she immediately recalled the importance of church and God's people gathering together in His house.
"As I prayed and joined in the singing, I realized how much I probably took for granted about being assembled in the house of the Lord with my brothers and sisters for worship," she admitted. "After all, attending church is what I do. It's what I have been doing for all my life, even before I sought the Lord for a personal relationship with Him."
Hines said that Christians — including her — need to lean into their faith when it comes to times of trials and tribulation — and especially during the COVID-19 crisis.
"COVID-19 is a killer," she wrote. "But it has also been a time of learning. We learned new ways to do things, to be creative. We had to wear masks, so we made them beautiful and stylish. When we could not congregate in our sanctuaries, some churches erected canopies in their parking lots, creating sanctuaries without walls, so their parishioners could worship while safely social distancing."
Hines noted that attending church last week for her first time in more than a year was "almost like old times again."
"The sweet fellowship among parishioners, the taking of Holy Communion and listening as [the minister] preached about the virtues of motherhood, had me on cloud nine," she wrote. "I could hardly contain myself."
She concluded, "It felt so good to be able to raise my hands in praises to the Lord, thanking Him for allowing me to set my feet inside His house once more. And while everyone wore a mask and elbow bumped each other, it was still special. We were in the sanctuary of the Lord, basking in His glory."President Biden's first 100 days haven't so much slouched toward Gomorrah as they have taunted the speed of light itself, with an orgy-riddled "hold my beer" sense of debauched destiny.
Thus, the first question any serious citizen of this country must ask is whether four years of this cancer will leave anything behind worth holding an election to govern over, or if such an election has any chance of even be held with any sense of legitimacy.
When you look at Republican Gov. Mike DeWine over in Ohio holding million-dollar lotteries eligible only for those in his state who have been vaccinated — because nothing says "follow the science" like rank bribery — then you might be inclined to say "bring on the smoldering piles of ash. We deserve it."
I mean, could DeWine signal any louder that he views his main constituency to be Dave Chappelle's crackhead character? And Dear God, who knows, what if he's right? Meaning, what if DeWine isn't a fool, but a sage who understands he's the captain of a ship of fools?
After all, most of the people of Ohio have allowed themselves to be tyrannically ruled by such a testicular travesty leading up to this point. I get lots of angry emails and social media engagements from angry Ohioans, but I don't see any George Floyd funerals…err…peaceful protests in the streets.
This is the consent of the governed in action. Wear the mask. Sure. Shut down the schools. You bet. Pay alms to Lord Fauci. Of course. So it's really just simple math that DeWine would end up thinking he could go full Willy Wonka and taunt his loyal Oompa Loompas with golden experimental substance tickets.
What must they think then when they gaze upon the state of Florida and see its Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, issuing pardons "for any Floridian that may have outstanding infractions for things like masks and social distancing?"
Does it even compute? Do the people of Ohio hear a foreign language when DeSantis speaks? Or even a threat to their perceived well-being? Could they be at least a little jealous? Then again, DeWine is offering a million dollars for the experimental substance hunger games. President Snow didn't offer anything like that, so lesser of two evils wins again, bitches!
We are flat-out dealing with two completely different definitions of reality among the Republican leaders in two of the most crucial American electoral swing states. That is, of course, insane. But it also a time for choosing among a landscape of bold colors. Freedom or serfdom? Courage or bed-wetting fear? True science or agitprop?
That's why every day between now and the 2024 election matters so much, which not-so-ironically means we need to concern ourselves primarily not with whom we will vote for but the man or woman in the mirror. Are we interested in self-rule or not? Does mention of 'we the people' stir us to zealous action and relentless duty, or does it fundamentally get in the way of our desire to vape our life away on a cocktail of Tiger King and approved pronouns?
Who in the hell are we? What are we prepared to do? Plebes who will just keep on taking it apparently.
So now, go and be a good little plebe, and kneel before Zod.Bret Baier grilled Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) on whether her crusade against former President Donald Trump was in the interest of her constituents and she responded by criticizing Fox News.
Cheney's appearance Thursday on Fox News was her first live interview since the Republican Party voted her out of her leadership position Wednesday.
"You, and your colleagues, at least in part, were elected to block the Biden agenda, which Republicans believe is too far left, and could lead to other things. Aren't they correct to claim that your focus on the election and President Trump was somehow not going to get them to that goal?" Baier asked.
"No, I think that's actually wrong, Bret," Cheney responded.
"I think if you look at where we've been since the election since Jan.6, we've had a real focus on, making sure people understand that the Biden policies are dangerous," she explained.
"If you look at the impact for the people of Wyoming, banning oil and gas leases on public lands is really dangerous, is really heartless. We've been very clear about that. What's happening at the border is very dangerous," Cheney added.
She went on to say that there were too many people in the Republican Party who were willing to enable Trump's claims that the election was fraudulent.
"The people of Wyoming believe deeply in the Constitution. The people of Wyoming know that we must use the Constitution as our shield, that we must defend the Constitution," explained Cheney.
"And so when you look at the challenge that the former president is presenting, right now still today, claiming that the election was stolen, claiming that our electoral process does not accurately reflect the will of the people. No remorse or regret for Jan. 6, continuing to use the language that we know inspired value in the past," she said.
Baier interrupted her and pushed her on why her crusade was representing voters in Wyoming when Cheney zeroed in on Fox News.
"We all have an obligation and I would say Fox News especially, especially Fox News, has a particular obligation to make sure people know the election wasn't stolen," Cheney said.
"And we've said that numerous times," Baier said.
Cheney and Baier interrupted each other as Baier attempted to respond to her demand.
"Brett, you're doing the interview, I'm answering the questions," Cheney said testily.
"We need to make sure that the American people recognize and understand that the election wasn't stolen, that we shouldn't perpetuate the big lie, and there's real danger," she continued.
She went on to say that she did not vote for Joe Biden and that she would not vote for a Democrat "ever." She also said that Trump's policies were better for the country than those of Biden.
"The issue is whether or not we are going to stand up for the rule of law and stand up for the Constitution. That is above partisanship, that is above politics," Cheney concluded.
Here's the full interview with Cheney on Fox News:Republican Rep. Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) called out a CNN reporter for misrepresenting his comment about the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol.
CNN's chief congressional correspondent Manu Raju stopped Massie to pepper him with questions about the riot, but Massie says his report did not document his comment correctly.
"Do you agree with Trump that the election was rigged or stolen somehow?" asked Raju.
"We didn't have hearings, there's no way to litigate that up here. If you're in the minority, the DOJ wouldn't investigate it," responded Massie.
"There's no evidence of widespread fraud," replied Raju.
"That's your opinion," smiled Massie.
"Are you concerned by suggesting that there's something wrong it could lead to more violence?" asked Raju later in the interview.
"No, no," Massie replied.
"Why?" Raju challenged.
"I don't see any violence," Massie said as he walked away.
The CNN report claimed that Massie said, "I didn't see any violence," as if he were denying the attacks on the U.S. Capitol in January.
Massie warned that he may not take any more questions from CNN unless the network corrects its report.
"I said 'don't,' not 'didn't' The audio is there for all to hear," said Massie on Twitter.
"Please fix your article @mkraju @CNN I'm one of the few GOP folks who will even talk to you in the hallway. There will be zero if you insist on misreporting our words," he added.
The CNN report tried to group Massie's comment with other Republicans who refused to talk about the rioting at the Capitol or downplayed the violence that occurred.
Massie had previously earned the ire of former President Donald Trump when he tried to derail passage of the first coronavirus relief bill in March 2020. Trump called him a "third rate grandstander" and called for the party to expel him.
Here's the misleading report from CNN:Prince Harry has weighed in on podcasting king Joe Rogan's comments regarding COVID-19 vaccinations for young people, saying Rogan should "just stay out of it" while warning, "you've got to be careful about what comes out of your mouth."
What are the details?
Last month, Rogan suggested on "The Joe Rogan Experience" that he would not recommend a healthy 21-year-old get vaccinated against the coronavirus, but said he believes vulnerable people should get the shot.
The podcaster was blasted over the remarks, and he later clarified his statements while adding, "I at least try to be honest about what I'm saying."
But the "Armchair Expert" podcast wanted to get Prince Harry's thoughts on Rogan's comments, according to Page Six.
The U.K. royal — who moved to the U.S. last year — told "Armchair" hosts Dax Shepard and Monica Padman that the right thing for Rogan to do would have been "just stay out of it."
"This issue is in today's world with misinformation endemic," the prince said. "You've got to be careful about what comes out of your mouth."
He also scolded Rogan, adding that "with a platform comes responsibility."
The New York Post noted that Page Six "exclusively reported that Rogan's comments would not sit well with Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, who have been huge supporters of COVID-19 vaccinations," pointing out that "the couple served as campaign chairs of Global Citizen's VAX Live: The Concert to Reunite the World, which served to increase donations and sharing of vaccine doses around the world."
Anything else?
Harry himself has refused to "just stay out of" American politics.
During the 2020 election cycle, he and wife Meghan Markle issued a video widely interpreted as an effort to sway voters to pull the lever for then-candidate Joe Biden.
When asked for his reaction to the couple weighing in the race at the time, then-President Donald Trump said, "I'm not a fan of hers, and I would say this — and she probably has heard that — but I wish a lot of luck to Harry, 'cause he's gonna need it."
Since then, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle sat down for a tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey seen worldwide, wherein they criticized the royal family and alleged that there are racists in their ranks.President Donald Trump did not mince words in response to Rep. Chip Roy (R-Texas) confirming that he would challenge Trump-endorsed Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) in a run for House GOP leadership.
Stefanik is considered the overwhelming favorite to replace Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) for Republican conference chair.
What are the details?
Roy told CNN on Thursday that he would throw his hat in the ring to challenge Stefanik, confirming The Daily Caller's report from a day before saying he was considering the move. A closed-door vote is set for Friday morning.
Trump then issued a statement bashing Roy, writing:
"Can't imagine Republican House Members would go with Chip Roy—he has not done a great job, and will probably be successfully primaried in his own district. I support Elise, by far, over Chip!"
Stefanik has been considered the shoo-in replacement for Cheney, since several GOP members — including some from the conservative House Freedom Caucus — expressed their support for the New Yorker. Former President Trump also endorsed Stefanik, who is fiercely loyal to the former president but is one of the most liberal Republicans in Congress when it comes to policy.
Roy, who is also a Freedom Caucus member, wrote a letter to his fellow GOP colleagues earlier this week urging them to pick someone other than Stefanik as the No. 3 in leadership, citing her liberal voting record.
As TheBlaze previously reported, Roy has voted 90% of the time in favor of Trump's positions, compared to Cheney's 65% and Stefanik's 35%.
Unlike Cheney, Roy voted against impeaching Trump, but he did condemn the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol and urged his fellow members from the House floor not to give in to demands to throw out Electoral College votes from some states as Trump wanted.
"That vote may sign my political death warrant, but so be it," Roy said, according to Texas Monthly. "I swore an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States and I will not bend its words into contortions for personal political expediency."
The Hill reported that conservative groups Club for Growth and FreedomWorks both endorsed Roy, but several GOP members are expected to skip Friday's vote on who will replace Cheney, saying the decision has been made.
"The cake is baked," GOP Rep. Troy Nehls (Texas) told the outlet.
"If anybody doesn't know who they're voting for by now, [they should] go to the candidate forum," Congressman Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) said.
"I think she's already got enough commitments. And if two-thirds of 'em stick, she'll be fine," saying it's "too little, too late" for Roy, Rep. Tim Burchett (R-Tenn.) added.Ellen Degeneres denied that the allegations of a toxic workplace environment led to her ending her talk show and instead blamed the climate of hatred under former President Donald Trump.
Degeneres made the comments during an interview Thursday with host Savannah Guthrie on NBC's "Today."
Guthrie asked if she had trouble making the decision to end her show and Degeneres said she had first thought of ending the show in 2018 because of the hatred during the Trump administration.
"First of all I had been struggling with it for a while. I really did think I was gonna stop season 16, because, it was, if you can remember there was a different president, and it was a different time, and there was a lot of hatred and anger, and stuff," Degeneres said.
"And then my brother was like, 'You bring so much joy to people. If you stop, then all that darkness wins. You're the light, like, stay and help people be kinder and be more compassionate,'" she continued.
Degeneres completely denied that the accusations of a toxic workplace led to her ending the show and said that instead the attacks encouraged her to stay longer than she wanted to stay.
She also said that the campaign against her and her show appeared to be "orchestrated," and cited comments from her celebrity guests as evidence that the allegations were not true.
"You know, for me to read in the press about a toxic work environment — when all I've ever heard from every guest that comes on the show is what a happy atmosphere this is and what a happy place it is," Degeneres said.
She went on to say that she was a victim of clickbait headline writers who thought it was too perfect to cast her as a villain after she took on the motto, "be kind."
Guthrie asked her what she would have made her motto if she could go back and change it.
"Go f*** yourselves," Degeneres responded, halfway joking.
Here's the entire interview with Degeneres and Guthrie:Maine police are investigating a bizarre incident where a 2-year-old is said to have picked up a handgun and shot his mother in the leg and his father in the back of his head.
Sagadahoc County Sheriff Joel Merry said the incident occurred at a home in West Bath around 8 a.m. Wednesday before the couple had woken up.
Merry said the child picked up the handgun from a nightstand and shot his parents. The boy was also injured after being struck in the head by the gun from the recoil.
Each parents was struck by the same bullet.
"The question of how the boy was able to pick up and fire the weapon is of great concern and is being investigated. This situation, while disturbing, could have had an even more tragic ending. We are thankful that the injuries were not more serious," Merry said.
All three were transported to a local hospital but none of their injuries are considered life-threatening. They are all expected to fully recover.
Merry said that the couple also had a 3-month-old baby but that the child not at the home at the time of the incident. That child is in the care of its grandmother.
He also cautioned gun-owning parents to take precautions against children having access to guns.
"You're never too young to be able to pick up a handgun and have an accidental discharge," Merry said.
"So you need to take care of firearms, they need to be kept in a secure location, or they need to be protected with a trigger lock," he added.
Gun control advocates used the incident to push for a bill that would make it a crime in Maine for anyone to leave loaded guns around a child that leads to the child firing a gun.
No charges were filed in that incident.
Here's a local news report about the incident:New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio (D) received a lot of attention online Thursday after he made a big production of a promotion aimed at enticing his constituents to get vaccinated for COVID-19.
But reactions were overwhelmingly critical of de Blasio's display, mocking him for an array of reasons.
What are the details?
De Blasio was plugging an offer from Shake Shack, a burger chain offering a free burger and fries to New York City customers who present confirmation that they have been fully vaccinated.
To drive the point home, de Blasio munched on fries while still talking and holding up the side item, saying, "You're saying I can get these delicious fries — wait a minute, but there's also a burger element to this?"
The mayor then holds up a burger for all to see, saying, "I want you to look at this and think about — again some people like hamburgers, some don't, I really want to respect all ways of life — if this is appealing to you, just think of this when you think of vaccination."
He then takes a bite, saying, "Mmmmmm ... vaccination. I'm getting a very good feeling about vaccination right at this moment."
Several observers on Twitter took issue with using fast food to lure people into getting vaccinated, saying that promoting unhealthy eating seemed counterproductive.
"One of the most American things I've ever seen," one person wrote. "Play on emotions, entice the obese with unhealthy food, this is the ultimate cringe, WTF!"
Some took issue with de Blasio's table manners. One person tweeted, "Is that how he really eats fries? What the hell?" Others said they were surprised to see de Blasio eating the burger and fries with his hands like a normal person, after he went viral in 2014 for eating pizza with a fork and knife.
A handful of folks said that Shake Shack's deal was a far cry from what is being offered in other parts of the country, pointing out that Ohio is holding a lottery and giving away five $1 million prizes to vaccinated adults.
The general consensus was that the presser was "just straight up weird."Vaccinated Americans are far less likely to engage in public activities than people who have not yet received the coronavirus vaccine, according to a new Morning Consult poll.
A survey of 879 vaccinated American adults and 1,321 unvaccinated adults found that those who were not inoculated against COVID-19 were much more likely to want to return to normal and engage in public activities. Morning Consult gauged the interest in both groups in returning to public activities, including going to the gym, taking a train, going to a party, attending a concert, going to a wedding, traveling abroad, and going on a cruise. In every possible scenario, the respondents that were not vaccinated were more inclined to participate in these public activities and events.
According to the poll, 43% of unvaccinated people felt it was safe to go to the gym versus only 27% of vaccinated Americans given the current state of the coronavirus pandemic. There were 42% of unvaccinated respondents who would attend a concert compared to 23% of vaccinated. When it comes to attending a sporting event, 42% of unvaccinated are ready to go to the ballpark, and 29% of vaccinated would go to the stadium to support their favorite sports team. There were 54% of vaccinated participants ready to get back to dating, while 43% of respondents were prepared to look for love despite being vaccinated for COVID-19. Speaking of love, there were 50% of unvaccinated people who felt comfortable attending a wedding, but just 38% of Americans who are vaccinated would go to a wedding. The poll found that 45% of unvaccinated people would attend a religious gathering versus 35% of those who were vaccinated.
The unvaccinated Americans were most comfortable with dining at a restaurant (63%), shopping at a mall (60%), and renting a car (58%).
When it comes to travel, 43% unvaccinated said they would take a bus, and just 24% for the inoculated group. The survey said 31% of vaccinated felt safe enough to travel abroad, compared to a mere 15% of the vaccinated respondents. When it comes to flying, 40% of the unvaccinated people were ready for air travel and 31% of vaccinated Americans wanted to go on an airplane. A whopping 37% of unvaccinated respondents said they would be comfortable going on a cruise, while only 17% of vaccinated would travel on a cruise line.
The survey conducted from May 6-8 also discovered that 88% of vaccinated people said COVID-19 poses a "severe" or "moderate" health risk in the United States, compared with 70% of unvaccinated respondents.If you're one of the people who thought the polling in the 2020 presidential election was bad, don't worry, the industry agrees with you.
An expert panel assembled by the trade association representing pollsters released preliminary findings that found the polling in last year's election was the most inaccurate political polling in 40 years. The polls overestimated support for Democratic candidate Joe Biden by almost 4 percentage points in the final two weeks of the campaign, the Wall Street Journal reported Thursday.
It was a larger error than in 2016, when the polling overestimated support for Hillary Clinton by 1.3 points and Donald Trump shocked the world by winning the Electoral College and the presidency.
In fact, the last time pollsters were this wrong was way back in 1980, when the polls failed to predict the size of Ronald Reagan's landslide victory over Jimmy Carter, who performed 6 percentage points worse than the polls predicted.
In 2020, support for Democrats was overstated "in every type of contest we looked at: the national popular vote, the state-level presidential vote as well as senatorial and gubernatorial elections,'' said Joshua D. Clinton, a professor of political science at Vanderbilt University who was the lead expert on the panel put together by the American Association for Public Opinion Research.
"This was true no matter how respondents were polled. It didn't matter whether you're doing online or telephone polls. A similar level of error was pervasive,'' said Clinton, who discussed the preliminary findings at the trade association's annual conference Wednesday.
There are no exact answers on why the polls were so wrong and how the industry can correct the problem, but the expert panel raised several possibilities. One is that some voters in 2020 declined to participate when pollsters called, which skewed the results.
Another possible explanation is that Trump was able to turn out voters in 2016 and 2020 who had previously voted infrequently or never voted before and did not identify with the Republican or Democratic political parties. It's difficult for pollsters to find a sample of people that looks like the whole electorate when they don't know what the electorate itself looks like.
A third explanation is that Biden voters were more likely to answer polls than Trump supporters, who may have been dismissive of polling because of Trump's various criticisms of the "fake news polls." If Trump voters weren't speaking to pollsters, then the polls would obviously slant toward Biden.
"The people who responded to polls were different than those who didn't. This is the first election where that was clear," Clinton said. Any one of these possibilities, or a combination of them, could explain why the polls were wrong.
As for how the industry corrects moving forward, Dan Merkle, president of the trade association, noted that in the 2018 midterm elections and the runoff Senate elections in Georgia earlier this year the polling was highly accurate.
"So, it's possible that these may be short-term phenomena that will abate when Trump is not on the ballot, or in the post-pandemic era," he said. "On the other hand, it could be a broader issue of conservatives becoming less likely to respond to polls in general.''Police arrested a suspect in connection to a hammer attack against a pair of Asian women on a New York City sidewalk earlier this month, the New York Post reported.
The May 2 attack was caught on surveillance video.
What are the details?
Ebony Jackson, 37, who is homeless, was charged with assault, criminal possession of a weapon, and menacing in connection to the incident, police told the paper.
The Post said the victims were walking on 42nd Street near 9th Avenue — an area known famously as Hell's Kitchen — around 8:40 p.m. when the suspect approached them and yelled, "Take off your mask!"
The suspect then struck one of the women in the head with a hammer resulting in a cut.
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @NYPDHateCrimes
The suspect then appears to strike with the hammer at least three more times. Police told the Post one of the victims was hit on the left side of her face.
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @NYPDHateCrimes
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @NYPDHateCrimes
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @NYPDHateCrimes
But video shows the hammer apparently is dropped and falls to the sidewalk.
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @NYPDHateCrimes
And one of the victims picks up the hammer and appears to dare the attacker to try them again.
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @NYPDHateCrimes
Amazingly the attacker — who loses both shoes in the melee — continues to jaw with the victims and appears to threaten to come at them again.
But the victims soon walk away from the scene as the attacker hollers and glares at them and puts her shoes back on.
Here's video of the attack:
Physical attacks against Asians have been spiking in New York City for most of 2021:After a debilitating and embarrassing cyberattack that crippled the supply chain for days, the Colonial Pipeline Co. buckled to the demands of hackers and paid nearly $5 million in ransom, Bloomberg reported Thursday afternoon.
NBC and CNBC confirmed the report by speaking to a source familiar with the situation and an anonymous U.S. official. Nicole Perlroth, cybersecurity reporter for the New York Times, reported Colonial paid the hackers 75 bitcoin on Monday.
"The company paid the hefty ransom in difficult-to-trace cryptocurrency within hours after the attack, underscoring the immense pressure faced by the Georgia-based operator to get gasoline and jet fuel flowing again to major cities along the Eastern Seaboard, those people said," according to Bloomberg. "A third person familiar with the situation said U.S. government officials are aware that Colonial made the payment."
Once the ransom was paid, the hackers provided Colonial Pipeline with a "decrypting tool to restore its disabled computer network," but the "tool was so slow that the company continued using its own backups to help restore the system," one of the people familiar with the company's efforts told Bloomberg.
A representative from the Colonial Pipeline Co. declined to comment on the ransom, but told Bloomberg that the company began to resume fuel shipments around 5 p.m. ET Wednesday.
"Colonial Pipeline has made substantial progress in safely restarting our pipeline system and can report that product delivery has commenced in a majority of the markets we service," Colonial's website said in a Thursday update. "By mid-day today, we project that each market we service will be receiving product from our system."
Thursday's update that Colonial Pipeline paid the hefty ransom contradicts earlier reports that said the energy company had no intention of paying the ransom.
During a Thursday news conference, President Joe Biden was asked if he knew that Colonial paid the hackers a ransom, and he responded by saying, "No comment."
Colonial became aware of the cyberattack around May 7 and immediately shut down its operations. The paralyzing cyberattack on the nation's largest pipeline triggered a full-scale shutdown, which led to fuel shortages, panic buying, and several governors declaring a state of emergency. The 5,500-mile pipeline runs from Houston to Linden, New Jersey, and supplies about 45% of the fuel used along the Eastern Seaboard.
By Wednesday, the pipeline shutdown helped push the national average price of gasoline to $3.008 per gallon, according to the Automobile Association of America.
Earlier this week, the FBI named a criminal gang of hackers named "DarkSide" as the culprits of the devastating cyberattack. DarkSide, which specializes in digital extortion, is suspected of operating out of Eastern Europe or Russia. President Biden said the hacker group is likely based in Russia, but does not believe the Russian government is involved.
"We do not believe the Russian government was involved in this attack, but we do have strong reason to believe that the criminals who did the attack are living in Russia, that's where it came from," Biden said Thursday.
The DarkSide group described its actions as "apolitical" in a statement provided to CNBC.
"We are apolitical, we do not participate in geopolitics, do not need to tie us with a defined government and look for our motives," the group stated. "Our goal is to make money, and not creating problems for society. From today we introduce moderation and check each company that our partners want to encrypt to avoid social consequences in the future."
The FBI discourages organizations from paying a ransom in a ransomware attack because "paying a ransom doesn't guarantee you or your organization will get any data back," and it "also encourages perpetrators to target more victims and offers an incentive for others to get involved in this type of illegal activity."
Anne Neuberger, the White House's top cybersecurity official, would not say if companies should pony up ransom demands.
"Typically that's a private sector decision," Anne Neuberger, deputy national security advisor for cyber and emerging technologies, told reporters at the White House on Monday. "We recognize that victims of cyberattacks often face a very difficult situation and they have to just balance often the cost-benefit when they have no choice with regards to paying a ransom. Colonial is a private company and we'll defer information regarding their decision on paying a ransom to them."Former NFL quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner Tim Tebow, well known for his devotion to his faith and willingness to share his beliefs, received serious props this week from a big name in one of the most secular sectors of American culture.
KISS frontman Gene Simmons took to social media to declare what a "shame" it is that Tebow's critics would stoop so low and mock the man for holding to his Christian convictions.
What happened?
Tebow has made headlines over the last several days as reports have swirled that the all-star college quarterback who wasn't able to make a long-term career at the signal-calling post in the NFL would likely be making a return to the league this year — as a tight end. The move comes after a sub-par stint in professional baseball's minor leagues.
The former Florida Gator's likely return to the professional ranks as a Jacksonville Jaguar under the command of former Gators coach Urban Meyer — Tebow's college career mentor and current-day neighbor — has not been without controversy.
Tebow, whose Christian faith has been his most identifying characteristic, was often the butt of over the top mockery, anti-faith jokes, and censorship. For example:
Liberal groups pressured CBS to cancel his pro-life Super Bowl ad.
A minor league baseball team in Charleston, South Carolina, was forced to apologize after mocked Tebow's faith during a three-game series.
HBO host John Oliver once joked that if he had a gun with two bullets he would shoot Tim Tebow before Osama bin Laden.
Twitter censored his Bible message about relying on God during difficult times.
Football analyst and former NFL and college star Randy Cross felt the media's treatment of Tebow was so inappropriate that while working for CBS Sports he called out his fellow members of the press for "root[ing] against him because of what he stands for."
This week, as criticisms of Tebow began to make the rounds again, the rocker known as "The Demon" went on defense for America's best-known Christian athlete ... for standing up for his faith.
"I support @TimTebow," Simmons tweeted Tuesday evening. "He was widely criticized and made fun of, simply because he is a man of faith, who believed in his Christian values. Shame on the NFL and the rest of the world for stooping so low."
Anything else?
Criticism of Tebow's likely return to the NFL also featured those who wanted to know why he should get another shot in the NFL while no team would sign QB-turned-activist Colin Kaepernick. To these critics it was clear that race was the only plausible explanation.
But Tebow's former Gator teammate and retired NFL linebacker Brandon Spikes was having none of it. He took to Twitter to call out the haters and tell them to "stop pulling this race bulls**t!"
He urged fans to understand that Tebow would be good for the Jaguars — or any team, for that matter — tweeting, "Tim Tebow will be an inspiration in any locker room trust me i know."
(H/T: Faithwire)Facing allegations of sexual misconduct from multiple women, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) attempted to defend himself Thursday, saying that making someone "feel uncomfortable" is not harassment.
During a news conference, City & State NY reporter Rebecca Lewis asked the governor about the statement he made after Charlotte Bennett, a former Cuomo aide, accused her ex-boss of making inappropriate sexual advances toward her.
"I never meant to make anyone feel uncomfortable," Cuomo said in response. "I never said anything that I believe is inappropriate. You can leave this press conference today and say, 'Oh, the governor harassed me.' I would say I never said anything that I believed was inappropriate. I never meant to make you feel that way. You may hear it that way, you may interpret it that way. And I respect that, and I apologize to you if I said something that you think is offensive."
But Lewis pressed him on the legal definition of sexual harassment, saying, "The harasser's intention doesn't matter. You can apologize if you make someone feel uncomfortable. I'm just wondering — do you acknowledge that, according to the law, it doesn't matter?"
"Harassment is not making someone feel uncomfortable," Cuomo insisted. "That is not harassment. If I just made you feel uncomfortable, that is not harassment. That's you feeling uncomfortable."
Cuomo's response raised eyebrows in the room and drew condemnation from anti-sexual harassment activists and Bennett, one of his accusers.
"When @NYGovCuomo propositioned me for sex, he broke the law," Bennett said. "It is very simple: the issue is about his actions, it is not about my feelings. He broke the law (you know, the one he signed). Apologies don't fix that, and neither do denials."
In 2019, Cuomo signed a sweeping law that strengthened protections against sexual harassment and lowered the bar for a victim to prove harassment took place. The law defines sexual harassment as "unwelcome verbal or physical behavior based on a person's gender."
The Sexual Harassment Working Group, an activist organization comprised of former New York legislative staffers that fights harassment in the state Capitol, issued a statement blasting Cuomo's "self-delusion."
"Today Andrew Cuomo's self-delusion reached impressive new heights & our response is very simple: Just because you believe you can't make anyone 'feel' harassed by your actions, doesn't make it legally true. If the Governor tried that before a judge he'd get laughed out of court," the group said. "We accept his original confirmation of Charlotte Bennett's account of him breaking the New York Human Rights Law he signed, by creating a hostile work environment and grooming her for sex."
"We eagerly await the Attorney General's investigation and look forward to the Governor being held accountable for his actions: Not anyone's feelings," the group added. "We are not going away and Cuomo will not silence victims."
Cuomo faces accusations of sexual harassment from nearly a dozen women following the first accusation from Lindsey Boylan, a former aide. State Attorney General Letitia James (D) opened an investigation into the allegations earlier this year. At the same time, Cuomo is also under investigation for allegedly covering up nursing home deaths, tying vaccine access to political support, and misusing state resources to write and promote his pandemic book.
The New York State Assembly has also opened an impeachment inquiry into Cuomo, though Republicans have criticized what they say is a "stalled" investigation that has only provided two updates since it began more than two months ago."The greatest ethnic dog whistle the right has ever come up with is 'Christian,' because it means 'people like us,' it means white."
The above quote is attributed to University of Oklahoma sociologist Samuel Perry, according to a recent New Yorker feature story by Eliza Griswold that explores "Christian nationalism."
In context, Perry's quote appears in a paragraph that leads with: "The election of Donald Trump intensified certain strains of Christian nationalism. He fanned fears of pluralism with Islamophobic and anti-immigrant rhetoric. He often invoked Christianity, albeit in terms that were largely about ethnic identity rather than faith."
While the New Yorker piece indeed explores larger religious and sociopolitical issues, Perry's "ethnic dog whistle" quote is getting some play on social media after the New Yorker led with his strident words when introducing the feature story to its Twitter audience Thursday:
How are folks reacting to Perry's quote?
As you might imagine, the quote from Perry — who also co-authored "Taking America Back For God: Christian Nationalism in the United States" with fellow sociologist Andrew L. Whitehead — is getting some pushback:
"Oh so now we are pretending only white people are Christian?" one user quipped. "Could the gaslighting get any more ridiculous?"
"What kind of stupid bigots think that Christian means white?" one commenter asked. "Just because the only ones YOU know are white, doesn't even touch on how many black & brown Christians exist. Everything you people write is made-up trash."
"Christians are every shade and every ethnicity, @socofthesacred," another user said. "According to the book of Galatians, 'There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.'"
'"Christian' literally means follower of Christ. It's not an 'ethnic dog whistle' invented by the right, not does it have anything to do with politics, race or nationality," another user noted. "It's disgusting to use it as a slur against people of faith or a cudgel against your political opponents."
"Huge parts of Africa and pretty much all of Latin and South America are Christians," another commenter noted. "I image that they'll be surprised to hear that you believe they're white supremacists."
"This is a terrible take as the future of Christianity actually lies in Africa and Asia," another user declared. "The Christian populations are growing on those two continents while they shrink in North America and Europe."
"Christianity isn't 'ethnic'. Neither is degeneracy. One cannot *rationally* demonize a whole group of people based on their skin-color or beliefs," another commenter reasoned. "Individuals are responsible for their own *actions*--not the actions of anyone else who may seem to look or think similarly."
Perry retweeted the New Yorker tweet that leads with his quote, but as of Thursday afternoon he doesn't appear to have responded to critics or clarified his statement.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has announced that fully vaccinated Americans may return to normal life without masks whether they are indoors or outdoors in the vast majority of settings.
What are the details?
The CDC on Thursday afternoon issued new guidance regarding mask-wearing and businesses.
The organization's latest announcement reveals that Americans are no longer advised to wear masks either indoors or outdoors save for a handful of instances including in health care settings, at businesses that require them, or on airliners.
The CDC also announced that the six-foot social distancing guideline is no longer necessary for fully vaccinated Americans.
During an afternoon White House briefing, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said, “Anyone who is fully vaccinated can participate in indoor and outdoor activities, large or small, without wearing a mask or physical distancing. If you are fully vaccinated, you can start doing the things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. We have all longed for this moment, when we can get back to some sense of normalcy."
The infectious diseases expert continued, "Based on the continuing downward trajectory of cases, the scientific data on the performance of our vaccines, and our understanding of how the virus spreads, that moment has come for those who are fully vaccinated."
Walensky added that unvaccinated Americans should still continue to wear masks and continue social distancing.
“This is an exciting and powerful moment, it could only happen because of the work of so many who made sure we have the rapid administration of three safe and effective vaccines," she added.
A person is considered fully vaccinated when two weeks following their last dose of a COVID-19 vaccine have elapsed.
According to the Associated Press, approximately 154 million Americans — more than 46 percent of the population — have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. More than 117 million Americans are fully vaccinated, according to the report.Stu Burguiere sat down with Spencer Coursen to discuss his book, "The Safety Trap: A Security Expert's Secrets for Staying Safe in a Dangerous World."
Coursen is the founder of Coursen Security Group and is nationally recognized as an expert in threat management. Formerly, Coursen ran Glenn Beck's security team, among other high-profile clients.
In this clip, Coursen shared a story about a recent attempt by an assailant to break into his home and the importance of knowing the difference between safety and security.
Watch the clip below for more from Stu. Can't watch? Download the podcast here.
Use promo code STU to save $10 on one year of BlazeTV.
Want more from Stu?
To enjoy more of Stu's lethal wit, wisdom, and mockery, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.Meghan McCain lashed out at the media during Thursday's broadcast of "The View," saying that they would be better advised to examine President Joe Biden's administration rather than targeting Trump allies and re-litigating issues that took place months ago.
What are the details?
During the show's "Hot Topics" segment, McCain and the other co-hosts addressed Georgia Republican Reps. Jody Hice and Andrew Clyde for their remarks on the Jan. 6 U.S. Capitol riot.
Both Nice and Clyde have insisted that no "insurrection" took place in Washington, D.C.
Clyde has said, "There was no insurrection, and calling it an 'insurrection,' in my opinion, is a bold-faced lie."
Co-host Whoopi Goldberg fired back, "What was he smoking?"
Co-host Sara Haines began, "This is a strategy. The broken recording, this is something [former President Donald] Trump did leading up to his election, it's what he did through his whole administration, and what he continues to do. 'If I say it enough, it'll be come true, or at least it'll appear to be true and people will start to believe it.'"
McCain, for her part, began, "Well, this happened four months ago, and we've been talking about it for four months, and I've made my perspective on this absolutely crystal clear: I think it's horrific. I don't believe the 'Big Lie.' We've talked about Liz Cheney at length."
Continuing, McCain turned to what many people say are the missteps of the Biden administration — including the ongoing U.S. southern border crisis and inflation — and said that the media should pay attention to what's affecting the lives of America right now.
“You know what's also a strategy, Sara? A strategy is not focusing on anything the Biden administration is doing right now that is leading this country into crisis," McCain said. “There's a crisis at the border, inflation rates are sky-high, the Middle East is on fire, unemployment is crazy, and a lot of Americans can't figure out how they're gonna get gas in their car. These are real problems. It's like the '70s all over again."
She continued, "I think there's a strategy going on that the media doesn't want to focus on anything bad happening in the Biden administration. And I implore everyone who works in this industry — just because Trump was so bad doesn't mean this is good!"
Doubling down on the remarks, McCain insisted, "There are real meat-and-potatoes issues impacting average Americans, who are also frightened, and I think we should be focusing on that, versus re-litigating something that happened four months ago."Top Republicans on the House Judiciary and Oversight Committees have called for an investigation into the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for reportedly having school reopening policies influenced by the nation's second-largest teachers' union. House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), House Oversight Committee Ranking Member James Comer (R-Ky.), and House Education and Labor Committee ranking member Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.) claimed that the alleged "political interference has resulted in months-long delays in the reopening of schools to the detriment of American children."
The House Republicans fired off a letter to CDC director Rochelle Walensky on Wednesday demanding to know how much influence the American Federation of Teachers had in the health agency's guidance on reopening schools across the country, Fox News reported. Walensky previously stated that the school reopening policies were "free from political meddling." However, conservative watchdog group Americans for Public Trust used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain questionable emails between the powerful teachers' union and the CDC.
"The documents show a flurry of activity between CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky, her top advisors and union officials — with Biden brass being looped in at the White House — in the days before the highly-anticipated Feb. 12 announcement on school-reopening guidelines," wrote the New York Post, which originally published the potentially damning report earlier this month.
The teachers' union was labeled as the CDC's "thought partner."
"Thank you again for Friday's rich discussion about forthcoming CDC guidance and for your openness to the suggestions made by our president, Randi Weingarten, and the AFT," wrote American Federation of Teachers senior director for health issues Kelly Trautner in a Feb. 1 email. "We were able to review a copy of the draft guidance document over the weekend and were able to provide some initial feedback to several staff this morning about possible ways to strengthen the document. … We believe our experiences on the ground can inform and enrich thinking around what is practicable and prudent in future guidance documents."
House Republicans want to know how much influence the AFT, which donated nearly $20 million to Democrats during the 2020 election, had on the CDC's recommendations for school reopening for in-person education. The Republicans claim that "the recently released emails reportedly show that the CDC has been taking its cues from teachers' unions instead of following the science."
"This interference also violates President Biden's stated intention to 'be led by health and medical experts' and his promise to open 'a majority of K-8 schools . . . in [the BidenAdministration's first] 100 days,'" the letter reads.
"The CDC has since acknowledged that it provided the AFT and other special interest unions, like the National Education Association, with nonpublic, draft copies of the guidance for their feedback," the Republican lawmakers wrote. "These unions took advantage of their special access, with some AFT requests being incorporated into the CDC's guidance nearly word for word. Instead of working towards re-opening schools safely, these emails reportedly show that the CDC was 'commit[ed] to partnership' with the AFT to 'earn [their] confidence.'"
"Changes to the CDC guidance made at the request of the AFT appear to depart from the established science, which the CDC and Biden Administration claim to follow," the letter states. "Your political obedience to Democrat-aligned special interest groups ahead of our Nation's children breaks both of these promises."
The House Republicans demand that the CDC furnish the lawmakers with all documents and communications between CDC officials and the teachers' union from Jan. 20 until the present. The Republicans gave CDC officials until May 26 to reveal the extent of influence the teachers' unions had on the CDC.
The CDC defended its working relationship with the AFT.
"As part of long-standing best practices, CDC has traditionally engaged with organizations and groups that are impacted by guidance and recommendations issued by the agency," a spokesman for Walensky said. "We do so to ensure our recommendations are feasible to implement and they adequately address the safety and wellbeing of individuals the guidance is aimed to protect. These informative and helpful interactions often result in beneficial feedback that we consider in our final revisions to ensure clarity and usability."
AFT spokeswoman Oriana Korin added, "The AFT represents 1.7 million educators, healthcare professionals and public employees who spent the last 14 months serving on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic. So naturally, we have been in regular touch with the agencies setting policy that affect their work and lives, including the CDC."
On Thursday, AFT president Randi Weingarten called for all public schools to fully return to in-person learning in the fall.
"There is no doubt: Schools must be open," Weingarten said. "Given current circumstances, nothing should stand in the way of fully reopening our public schools this fall and keeping them open. The United States will not be fully back until we are fully back in school. And my union is all in."
Rep. Jim Jordan has been consistent in calling for schools to reopen for in-person education since last year.
"Schools must reopen this fall," Jordan demanded last July. "If a district doesn't reopen, parents should have a choice to send their kids elsewhere. #SchoolChoice and freedom wins!"
"The CDC says it's safe to open schools," the Ohio representative said. "So why does the 'party of science' want to keep schools closed?"
"President Biden has done more to open the southern border than American schools," he tweeted in February.
"Fund the police and the military," Jordan proclaimed this week. "Defund the teachers' unions and Dr. Fauci."A black woman who reportedly is a mother of children in Virginia's Loudoun County Public Schools absolutely eviscerated critical race theory in front of the school board Tuesday night.
What did she say?
The unidentified woman, wearing a face shield, began her address to board members by quoting from Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech — specifically the part in which the late civil rights leader said he didn't want his children judged by the color of their skin but rather by the content of their character.
Then she let it rip.
"[Critical race theory] is not an honest dialogue — it is a tactic used by Hitler and the Ku Klux Klan on slavery very many years ago to dumb down my ancestors so we could not think for ourselves," the woman said, using the acronym "CRT."
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @iandprior
"[Critical race theory] is racist, it is abusive, it discriminates against one's color," she added. "Let me educate you: An honest dialogue does not oppress. An honest dialogue does not implement hatred or injustice. It's to communicate without deceiving people. Today we don't need your agreement; we want action and a backbone for what we ask for today — to ban CRT."
She also said "we don't want your political advertisement to divide our children or belittle them. Think twice before you indoctrinate such racist theories. You cannot tell me what is or is not racist."
Then the mother glared at the school board members and growled, "Look at me! I had to come down here today to tell you to your face that we are coming together, and we are strong. This will not be the last 'greet and meet,' respectfully."
Image source: Twitter video screenshot via @iandprior
Here's the clip:
What is critical race theory?
Critical race theory has come under fire from those who say the concept — which calls the United States a racist country and says academics are filled with racism — is dangerous and divisive.
House Republicans on Wednesday introduced the Stop CRT Act, which bans critical race theory training in the armed forces.
"Critical race theory is a divisive ideology that threatens to poison the American psyche," U.S. Rep. Dan Bishop (R-N.C.) said at a news conference, according to NBC News. "For the sake of our children's future, we must stop this effort to cancel the truth of our founding and our country."
Chloe Valdary — who is black and is the founder of a New York City anti-racism firm — penned a Newsweek op-ed Monday blasting critical race theory: "We should reject critical race theory's social gospel not only from a wish to see no one — including white people — dehumanized because of their skin color but also as an affirmation of the enduring power, beauty, and triumph of black American life, despite the tragedies we have been made to bear."
What did the school district have to say?
A Loudoun County Public Schools spokesperson told Fox News on Wednesday that critical race theory "is not part of the Loudoun County Public Schools curriculum" and noted interim superintendent Scott Ziegler's post on the district's "equity work," which included hiring a third-party group — the Equity Collaborative — that offers "equity coaching" and performed a "systemic equity assessment" on the district.
Fox News noted that racial equity is a key tenet of critical race theory.
Battling back
There's an effort under way to recall six Loudoun County school board members from parents who say they've pushed critical race theory and were indifferent when parents who questioned it were attacked, the New York Post reported.
A video ad was released Tuesday accusing the district of training teachers that Christians are oppressors and pushing the concepts of "white privilege" and "white fragility" on students, the paper said.
Here's the ad:
We Can't Wait youtu.be
Anything else?
In March, GoFundMe reportedly took down a page run by the parents fighting against the district's leftist agenda after local progressive activists complained.
And the woman who blasted critical race theory at the school board meeting earlier this week wasn't the only person who received national attention for such a move. In January, an unnamed man blasted the board for keeping students out of school amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
"The garbage workers who pick up my freaking trash risk their lives every day more than anyone in this school system! Figure it out! Or get off the podium!" he screamed. "Because you know what? There are people like me and a line of other people out there who will gladly take your seat and figure it out! It's not a high bar! Raise the freaking bar!"Nearly three in five unvaccinated Americans said a big financial incentive would persuade them to get a COVID-19 vaccine, according to a new survey.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Wednesday about 154 million people in the United States have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, about 58 percent of U.S. adults. That number is shy of the goal of 70 percent that President Joe Biden set for May 4.
To incentivize those who have not yet been vaccinated to get the shot, several states are adopting programs offering some form of award for getting vaccinated. The state of West Virginia is handing out $100 savings bonds to anyone ages 16-35 who gets a vaccine. The governor of Ohio just announced a million-dollar lottery drawing for vaccinated voters in his state. In New Jersey and Connecticut, anyone who gets a vaccine also gets a free beer. And Maryland is offering $100 payments to state employees who get vaccinated.
Though some critics are skeptical that these financial incentives will actually encourage people to get vaccinated, a Morning Consult survey released Thursday found some vaccination incentives could work.
For example, 57 percent of unvaccinated adults said a big cash payment, such as a $1,000 savings bond, would persuade them to get COVID-19 shots. Another 43 percent said they'd probably or definitely get vaccinated for a smaller $50 bond. Adult respondents under age 45 were more likely to say a big financial incentive would incentivize them to get their vaccines.
The number-one reason given by survey respondents for their vaccine hesitancy was concerns over the "long term effects," 44% said. Another 32% indicated they were concerned about the "short term" effects of the vaccine.
The second-most cited reason for vaccine hesitancy, given by 39% of respondents, is that there is too much "conflicting information" about the vaccines for them to feel comfortable getting shots right now.
While there is no nationwide requirement for adults to be vaccinated, the survey suggests a requirement to be vaccinated might work as well as a financial incentive: 57% of unvaccinated Americans said they'd get a COVID-19 shot if they were required to do so for work or to shop in-person; 48% said they'd get the vaccine if it was required to dine indoors at a restaurant; and 45% said they'd get vaccinated in order to fly domestically.
The survey also suggests steps taken to make getting the vaccine more convenient might also convince more people to take advantage of the opportunity. Nearly half of unvaccinated adults said they would "probably or definitely get a shot" if it was provided by their employer at the workplace; if they could get it from their primary care doctor during a checkup; or if they didn't need an appointment for a walk-up vaccination site that opened near their workplace.An award-winning former producer for "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" has opened up about what she said is a toxic atmosphere on the set of the show.
DeGeneres announced this week that the show would be ending after 19 seasons on daytime television.
What are the details?
Two-time Emmy Award-winning producer Hedda Muskat told Australian show "Sunrise" host Natalie Barr that she believes DeGeneres "duped" her fans and viewers into believing that she is a "nice person."
"The viewers have spoken," Muskat said of the show's cancellation. "Her ratings have been in the toilet for a long, long time now, her show has not been fun, it has not been interesting, and she's not, really, by the way, stepping down. The viewers fired her."
She also said that the famed show host and longtime actress and comedienne isn't as genteel as she would have everyone believe.
"I don't think the show's demise is because of the viewers' loyalty to the employees, because let's face it; as employees we endure hardship from the workplace all the time," Muskat reasoned. "I think the the viewers are disappointed in the phoniness she's been projecting as this 'nice person.' So I feel that the viewers feel duped, in a way, that she's not this nice person. The viewers are not going to put up with the backstage racism that goes on and the backstage bullying that goes on. So I think the viewers have woken up, finally."
Muskat said that she was first hired in 2003 and was responsible for booking human interest guests on the show.
"When I would go in to pitch Ellen who we have on the show today for our production meetings, she looked away. She showed no interest with any of the news-breaking stories," she recalled. "She really showed a lot of despise for a lot of my people that we were pitching to her, which is fine. It's a pitch. I don't care about that."
"But," the former producer continued, "But we had to walk on eggshells with her because when we would be pitching, her snide remarks would be, 'What am I going to talk to them about? I don't know. I have nothing to say. I don't know.' So we would write the whole outline for her and then the guests would walk off feeling like crap. So it wasn't goodwill for the show."
Celebrities, however, were a different breed, Muskat said.
"She loved kissing ass with all of celebrities and she really was not in a position to interview the real people because she couldn't really carry a conversation with them," she said.
When asked where she would like to see DeGeneres turn up after her show's dust settles, Muskat said, "I'd like to see her work on a farm where she can relate with all of the animals, and the pets, and the dogs, and the cows, and the pigs, because she can relate to animals far more than she does with people."
Muskat said that her own personal experience was shared by at least "over a hundred employees" that worked on the production over nearly two decades.
"I was not able to have any connection with her, make any eye contact, and here's the thing: It's not just me, or three of us; there were over a hundred employees over the 19 years that walk away with with a sickened feeling about working there," she admitted. "As much as I loved my job as a booker and producer, I was almost relieved when I got fired. I wanted to take a shower; it was like a whole new dawn."Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) delivered some welcome news to a Florida couple facing jail time for violating the county's COVID mandates, telling them on Fox News Wednesday night that he would be pardoning them — and any other Floridian charged for defying COVID rules like masking and social distancing.
What's that now?
DeSantis lifted most of his state's COVID restrictions back in September. Included in that move was permission for all gyms to reopen at full capacity and a proscription on new restrictions from local governments that would close businesses.
But Broward County decided to implement its own COVID restrictions on mask-wearing and social distancing for businesses, which was a problem for Mike and Jillian Carnevale, the former owners of Fitness 1440 in Plantation, Florida.
Mike Carnevale was arrested multiple times by Broward officials for violating COVID mask mandates, WFOR-TV reported. One of those incidents occurred in August when he set up his gym equipment in his business' parking lot and refused to ask members to wear masks, according to WTVJ-TV.
The Carnevales told Fox News' Laura Ingraham they filed a lawsuit against the county's mandate that citizens wear masks during strenuous exercise and were arrested 24 hours later. They said they were arrested a total of three times, had their business seized, and now face up to 180 days in prison after they turned down a plea deal for 10 days in jail.
The couple's attorney, Cory Strolla, told Fox that the problem is that they are dealing with a "political activist judge" who was insisting on jail time for not forcing people to wear masks while exercising.
Gov. DeSantis joined the couple and their attorney on Ingraham's show to rip what he called the county's "total overreach" and to share with them that he would be pardoning the couple and anyone else charged with violating COVID restrictions like masks-wearing and social distancing.
"This is exactly what we ordered against last summer," DeSantis said, explaining that he was "just recently" briefed on the Carnevale case.
"I'm glad you have Mike and Jillian on, and I'm also glad to be on to be able to say that, effective tomorrow morning, I'm going to sign a reprieve under my constitutional authority," the governor said.
He explained that his move would "delay the case for 60 days against both of them" and said, "When our clemency board meets in the coming weeks, we'll issue pardons not only for Mike and Jillian but for any Floridian that may have outstanding infractions for things like masks and social distancing."
"The fact is, it's not even right to be wearing masks when you're exercising," DeSantis added. "The World Health Organization advises against it. It's not healthy to be doing that in the first place, so it was a bad restriction."
“These things with health should be advisory, they should not be punitive," the governor said.We often hear that half the states no longer criminalize human breath and have ditched their mask mandates, but it's simply not true. The most immoral and scientifically indefensible aspect of the mask mandate is the masking of schoolchildren for seven hours a day. That is continuing in nearly every county of most red states, with few of the governors even attempting to rein in local school boards. South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster has now provided a blueprint for how to actually enforce the termination of the mask mandate on local school districts.
On Tuesday, Gov. McMaster ordered the state's Department of Health and Environmental Control and the state's Department of Education to distribute waiver forms to all parents, which will allow them to opt out of any mask mandate in their district's public school. This will ensure that all children will be allowed in school without their face covered if their parent signs the document.
"We have known for months that our schools are some of the safest places when it comes to COVID-19," McMaster said in a press release. "With every adult in our state having the opportunity to receive a vaccine, it goes against all logic to continue to force our children – especially our youngest children – to wear masks against their parents' wishes. Whether a child wears a mask in school is a decision that should be left only to a student's parents."
Here is a copy of the waiver in the Spartanburg school district.
Notice that school districts are asserting that Biden's executive order still requires masking on buses. There is no reason there should not be a lawsuit in every school district on the grounds that the president not only violated the civil rights of children but also overstepped his authority because these buses do not cross state lines.
McMaster's Executive Order 2021-23 also declares any local mask mandate based on original emergency orders to be pre-empted and invalid. The order further prohibits any local government entity from requiring proof of vaccination to obtain services.
It has become clear that we will have to pry the mask obsession out of these local governments with as much force as we can apply. We cannot rely on simply terminating mandates in word only, but must repeal them with as much force as they were implemented. Requiring school districts to mail out consent forms is a good first step, which will also create a clear legal cause of action against those districts that violate the policy.
To the south in Florida, Gov. DeSantis has already superseded local mandates and signed a bill banning requirement of vaccines in schools. The Florida Department of Education already announced guidelines to end the school mask mandates for the next academic year. Also this week, Florida State University announced that masks will no longer be required on campus.
On Tuesday, DeSantis called on schools to return to complete normalcy. "These kids do not need to be wearing masks, OK? I'm sorry, they don't," DeSantis said Tuesday at a Jacksonville high school. "We need to be able to let them be kids and let them act normally, and that's what should be the case in the fall (and) throughout the school year."
Either way, the governors will have to use their control over the state departments of education and health to hold localities accountable and make sure the mask craze actually comes to an end. The mask has become to the left what guns are to the right. Just as Charlton Heston said, you will have to pry the gun "from my cold, dead hands," so too we will have to pry the masks from the warm, moist, bacteria-filled faces of the COVID cultists. That will require an indefatigable grassroots pressure campaign that must include lawsuits, naming and shaming county and state bureaucrats, and a sustained focus on local elections.Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said this week that it's "very important" for children to be vaccinated against COVID-19, but doesn't think parents should be required to have their children vaccinated before kids can go back to school. He also said vaccinated people do not need to wear masks outdoors.
"Whenever you're talking about requiring something, that's always a charged issue. So I'm not so sure we should be requiring children at all," the top White House health adviser said on "CBS This Morning" Thursday. "We should be encouraging them. But you got to be careful when you make a requirement of something, that usually gets you into a lot of pushback, understandable pushback."
The Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this week approved the use of Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine for adolescents ages 12 to 15. Beginning Thursday, anyone 12 and older is eligible to receive the vaccine.
CDC data demonstrates that children in grades K-12 are at low risk of contracting and spreading COVID-19. In-person learning at school has not been associated with a substantial increase in community transmission of the virus, but there is ongoing debate over whether kids should be vaccinated before schools open in the fall.
Some parents remain hesitant to vaccinate their children against COVID-19. According to the KFF COVID-19 Vaccine Monitor, a research project that tracks public opinions on the vaccines, 23% of parents with children ages 12-15 say the definitely will not have their kids vaccinated, while 30% say they will get their kids vaccinated right away. Another 26% said they want to wait to see how the vaccine is working, and 18% said they will only have their kids vaccinated if their school requires it.
"You don't want to in any manner or form have the parents feel like they're doing something wrong by questioning," Fauci said. "It's a perfectly normal thing to be concerned about your children and to question. And that's the reason why you want to get them as much information as you possibly can."
"It is very important for children to get vaccinated," he continued, acknowledging that while children are at a low risk of serious infection from COVID-19, there are still some kids who become ill and are in "serious trouble."
There are documented cases of children who contract COVID-19 continuing to have symptoms lasting more than 120 days after getting sick, a phenomena becoming known as "long covid." At least five hospitals in the U.S. have opened "long-haul" pediatric clinics to care for children with lingering illness from the virus. While these cases happen at a "low rate," Fauci advised parents to take preventive precautions by getting their children vaccinated.
"The other aspect of it that they need to understand, is that when children get infected — even though they may not, in fact, get serious illness — they could inadvertently and innocently pass the infection on to someone else, perhaps another member of the family who is vulnerable and could get in trouble," Fauci added.
He reminded viewers that there are benefits to being vaccinated, according to CDC recommendations.
"If you were vaccinated, you don't have to wear a mask outside," Fauci said. "If you were going into a completely crowded situation where people are essentially falling all over each other, then you wear a mask. But any other time, if you're vaccinated and you're outside, put aside your mask. You don't have to wear it."Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis weighed in on the current Middle East conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. The Republican governor blasted Hamas, placing blame on the group for the recent bloodshed in the tumultuous region, and emphasized that Israelis have the "right to defend themselves."
"I also wanted to just make a comment about what's happening in the Middle East," DeSantis said during a Wednesday press conference. "I have friends over there who have been having to hide out in bomb shelters overnight, because of Hamas, which is a terrorist group, raining down rockets on civilians."
"And make no mistake, Hamas is a terrorist group," DeSantis proclaimed. "They are at fault on this. Israel has every right to defend itself against Hamas. And I think if you look at what's going on here, it really isn't so much about Israel, it's about Hamas trying to stake a claim to be the leader of the entire Palestinian Authority."
"They kind of have their little place down in Gaza where they foment a lot of terrorism," DeSantis explained. "They've had a lot of problems going on with the Palestinian Authority. I think this is Hamas' attempt to capitalize on that. But our ally Israel has a right to defend themselves and what's going on by Hamas is an absolute disgrace."
Ron DeSantis' commentary on world conflicts could hint at presidential run
The Florida governor delivered his remarks about the violent situation on the other side of the world as speculation grows that DeSantis could be eyeing up a run for president in 2024. A new poll from the Trafalgar Group found that DeSantis is far and away the most popular Republican presidential candidate if Donald Trump decides not to run in 2024. The nationwide survey, conducted between April 30 and May 6, discovered that DeSantis currently gets almost 35% support from likely GOP voters in the 2024 Republican presidential primary, which is nearly the same amount as the next three potential candidates combined – Ted Cruz, Mitt Romney, and Mike Pence.
An Echelon Insights poll from April declared DeSantis to be the early leader with 20% of the vote if Trump doesn't run for president. A Just the News survey from late February stated that DeSantis was the leading Republican 2024 candidate if former President Donald Trump sits out 2024, with 21% of the vote. During the Conservative Political Action Conference in February, Republicans overwhelmingly supported DeSantis in the 2024 election, with 43% supporting his presidential run if Trump bows out.
Latest update on the Israel-Gaza conflict
More than 1,500 rockets have been launched from Gaza toward Israel since Monday, according to the Israel Defense Forces. There are a reported 83 deaths in Gaza and seven in Israel, according to the BBC. Four senior Hamas commanders and a dozen more Hamas operatives were killed by Israeli airstrikes, the Guardian reported.
Violence erupted in the streets of Israel late Wednesday as Arab and Jewish mobs attacked each other. Following the night of "anarchy," Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said "nothing justifies" the street violence and vowed to restore order "with an iron fist if necessary."
"It doesn't matter to me that your blood is boiling," Netanyahu said. "You can't take the law in your hands."
Israel has prepared combat troops along the Gaza border and is in "various stages of preparing ground operations," a military spokesman said on Thursday.
"The chief of staff is inspecting those preparations and providing guidance," said Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus, international spokesperson of the IDF.
Hamas armed wing spokesman Abu Ubaida responded to Israel's troop buildup with a threat.
"Mass up as you wish, from the sea, land and sky. We have prepared for your kinds of deaths that would make you curse yourselves," Ubaida proclaimed.To hear the Left tell the story, Karl Marx was a revolutionary hero preaching class warfare between the haves and the have-nots. In reality, Marx was "spiritually blind," argued BlazeTV host Mark Levin on the most recent episode of "LevinTV."
Levin dismantled the Marxist movement taking hold in our country under the banners of Antifa, BLM, or "environmental justice," and exposed how Marx perverted the value of the human spirit, soul, and mind — everything that makes each of us unique and special.
Watch the video clip below as, piece by piece, Mark rips the cover off the perversion that is American Marxism and exposes their hollow religion.
Want more from Mark Levin?
To enjoy more of "the Great One" — Mark Levin as you've never seen him before — subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) says that mask mandates and other COVID-19-related restrictions could be eased or altogether lifted by June 15, the Los Angeles Times reported on Wednesday.
What are the details?
Newsom said Wednesday that the state could "significantly ease its mask mandates" over the next several weeks, the outlet reported, citing the continued decline of COVID-19 infections and increase in vaccinations.
On June 15, Newsom said, "we'll move beyond the blueprint and we'll be in a completely different space."
"We will be updating our mask guidelines, outdoor masking, if we reach that threshold where we hope to be ... in fact, it will be eliminated, those mandates," he said. "They'll be guidelines or recommendations."
The California Democrat continued, "But for indoor activities, we will still have, likely, some mask guidelines and mandates. But we hope, sooner than later, that those will be lifted as well."
Earlier this week, Newsom said that the timeline following the June 15 date could look a lot like life did before the pandemic turned the world on its head.
"That world looks a lot like the world we entered into before the pandemic," he said. "We're not wearing face coverings. We're not restricted in any way, shape, or form of doing the old things that we used to do."
Other than large-scale indoor events, Newsom added, the government plans to "make guidance" and "recommendations," but vows that there won't be any further mandates or restrictions on businesses.
What else?
The outlet states that Dr. Peter Chin-Hong, who is professor of medicine and an infectious disease expert at UC San Francisco, said that he believes there is still reason to be cautious about removing masks while indoors.
“I don't think we're there yet," he said. “Even if you are vaccinated, the more people you bring together, the higher the chance of nonresponders getting together where they can transmit.
He added that the larger the group is, the higher the chance exists that some people are not fully protected against the virus and could transmit or be infected with coronavirus.
He also noted that many people might continue to wear masks out of habit or for personal reasons that have nothing to do with COVID-19.
Chin-Hong added that it's important for people to realize that they have "control" over how they can respond to the pandemic, or even the garden-variety cold or flu.
“Essentially, it's one thing that we have control over in the pandemic," he reasoned. “And if, at the end of the day, we have better acceptance of people wearing masks to protect other people when they have a cold or something, I'm all for that."Pennsylvania State University will no longer use labels like "freshman," "junior," or "senior," because such terms are not inclusive enough and perpetuate a Western male-dominated viewpoint.
What are the details?
On April 27, Penn State's faculty senate announced the passage of an "inclusive language" resolution that has effectively banned the use of "paternalistic" terms such as "freshmen," "junior," "senior," "upperclassmen," "underclassmen," and more, according to Penn State News.
The Senate Committee on Curricular Affairs passed the resolution — titled "Removal of Gendered & Binary Terms from Course and Program Descriptions" — with a majority vote.
A portion of the resolution reads, "The University, as with most all academic institutions world-wide, has grown out of a typically male-centered world. As such, many terms in our lexicon carry a strong, male-centric, binary character to them. Terms such as 'freshmen' are decidedly male-specific, while terms such as 'upperclassmen' can be interpreted as both sexist and classist."
Not even "junior" and "senior" are exempt from the senate's inclusive microscope, as such terms are "parallel to western male father-son naming conventions, and much of our written documentation uses he/she pronouns."
Terms like freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior will now be replaced with labels "first-year," "second-year," "third-year," and "fourth-year," and upperclassmen and lowerclassmen will now be referred to as "upper division" students and "lower division" students.
The resolution recommends that the university make "editorial updates to our course and program descriptions" to reflect the changes, in order to "remove gendered terms" and avoid any alienation of faculty, students, and staff.
"We suggest that the University consider changes to all written materials, including recruiting materials, admissions materials, scholarship information, housing materials, other outward-facing documents, internal documents, and websites," the resolution adds.
The resolution, however, admits that certain instances will exist in which gendered terms "may need to remain intact" — specifically gender studies courses and other courses that may pertain to feminism and the like.
“The committee recognizes that there may be places where these terms, especially gender terms, may need to remain intact, for example in the case of courses or degrees that delve into gender studies," the resolution points out. “In such cases, efforts shall be made to clearly delineate between the 'academic' study of these gendered terms, and the newly established nomenclature as it would apply to faculty, staff, students, and guests."
According to Campus Reform, more than 88 percent of university students approved the change.Gal Gadot, the Israeli actress best known for portraying "Wonder Woman" on the big screen, issued a statement calling for peace and pro-Palestinians critics melted down in response.
Gadot posted a short statement to her Twitter account on Wednesday after several days of lethal violence in her home country.
"My heart breaks," wrote Gadot. "My country is at war. I worry for my family, my friends. I worry for my people.
"This is a vicious cycle that has been going on for far too long. Israel deserves to lives as a free and safe nation, our neighbors deserve the same," she added.
"I pray for the victims and their families, I pray for this unimaginable hostility to end, I pray for our leaders to find the solution so we could live side by side in peace," Gadot continued.
"I pray for better days," she concluded.
'Gal gadot is an ugly zionist...'
Some supporters of the Palestinian cause replied with vicious vitriol to Gadot's call for peace.
"Gal gadot is an ugly zionist who can't act and is beyond pathetic. time and time again she shows yall that she sides with the ethnic cleansing of palestinians and yall act brand new everytime. f*** that woman," responded one Twitter user.
"I'm glad Gal Gadot said what she said. People should see how Israelis have been laundering the genocide of Palestinians under a disingenuous call for the end of a conflict that has never existed, it's always been an extermination campaign," claimed activist Asheya Siddiqi.
"Just another reminder that Gal Gadot is a Zionist and has long supported the ethnic cleansing and violence towards Palestinians," said another critic.
"Gal Gadot is wrong. Israel is not at 'war' with Palestine. Israel is butchering Palestine. Again," responded UK musician James Kennedy.
"I wish gal gadot a very shut the f*** up," read another tweet.
Others, like Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), praised Gadot. "God bless @GalGadot," Cruz tweeted.
Here's more about Gal Gadot's statement:More than 120 retired generals and admirals have signed a letter saying that the U.S. is in "deep peril" under the leadership of President Joe Biden, specifically warning that the mental condition of the nation's oldest commander in chief "cannot be ignored."
What are the details?
The letter was released by Flag Officers 4 America, and was signed by 124 retired "military officers entitled to carry a flag indicating their rank," The Daily Caller noted.
It begins, "Our Nation is in deep peril. We are in a fight for our survival as a Constitutional Republic like no other time since our founding in 1776. The conflict is between supporters of Socialism and Marxism vs. supporters of Constitutional freedom and liberty."
The retired military leaders went on to say that "without fair and honest elections that accurately reflect the 'will of the people' our Constitutional Republic is lost," saying that "aside from the election, the Current Administration has launched a full-blown assault on our Constitutional rights in a dictatorial manner, bypassing the Congress, with more than 50 Executive Orders quickly signed."
At the end of a long list of bullet points citing "additional national security issues and actions," Flag Officers 4 America wrote:
"The mental and physical condition of the Commander in Chief cannot be ignored. He must be able to quickly make accurate national security decisions involving life and limb anywhere, day or night. Recent Democrat leadership's inquiries about nuclear code procedures sends a dangerous national security signal to nuclear armed adversaries, raising the question about who is in charge. We must always have an unquestionable chain of command."
The officials ended the letter with a call for action, urging "all citizens to get involved now at the local, state and/or national level to elect political representatives who will act to Save America, our Constitutional Republic, and hold those currently in office accountable," concluding, "The 'will of the people' must be heard and followed."
What else?
Biden, 78, is the oldest American president to ever be elected, and he faced questions from opponents during both the Democratic primary and the general election over his mental fitness for office.
A White House spokesperson told People magazine Wednesday that Biden "is planning to have a checkup later this year, and the results will be made public."
The outlet noted that White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters last week that the administration "will be transparent" to reporters about the results of Biden's first physical when it happens.
People also reported that "Biden similarly promised during the 2020 campaign to be 'totally transparent in terms of my health.'"A mom of two grade school boys in Ardmore, Oklahoma, is crying foul after they were punished for wearing shirts to school that supported the Black Lives Matter movement.
Jordan Herbert angrily denounced Charles Evans Elementary and the principal in a Facebook post from April.
"So my 8 yr old who attends Charles Evans elementary wore his Black Lives Matter shirt on friday. He was told to turn his shirt inside out by (Mrs. Brunk) the principal of the school. I asked the woman this morning to show me in the school hand book where the dress code says he's not aloud to wear it," read the post.
Herbert says that she was told politics weren't allowed at the school.
"My son is 8 he has no idea about politics and wearing a Black Lives Matter shirts has NOTHIN to do with politics. He's simply sayin his life matters. Oh yea he's the 2nd kid at Charles evans to get made to turn his shirt inside out. Y'all will hear my mouth until something is done about this here BS," she added.
True to her word, she and a handful of protesters demonstrated outside the school in Ardmore.
In a later post on Thursday, she claimed that her younger son wore the same shirt to school without incident.
"They were called out on their bulls*** and now it's ok for him to wear it! His shirt bothered them. It was never a distraction until they made it one," Herbert claimed.
Ardmore Superintendent Kim Holland explained the school policy to KXII-TV.
"I understand what she is saying, but school is not the place to have all that, y'know political back and forth and upheaval. We're trying to teach kids things like reading and writing," Holland said.
"We're trying to be more neutral in the school and be advocates for all of our children in what they need," she added.
Holland also told USA Today that the same policy would have applied if a student wore a "Make America Great Again" hat to school or a pro-Trump shirt.Texas GOP Rep. Chip Roy is reportedly mulling a run against New York Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R) to replace Liz Cheney as House Republican conference chair following Cheney's ouster.
What are the details?
The Daily Caller first reported that according to two sources, Roy is considering throwing his hat in the ring against Stefanik for the No. 3 position in House GOP leadership.
When reached for comment on the prospect, Roy's office told the outlet, "While not ruling anything out, Congressman Roy has never sought a position in conference leadership. His focus is on serving Texas' 21st Congressional district … But if the position must be filled, then this must be a contested race — not a coronation."
Cheney was ousted from leadership Wednesday in a voice vote, over her continued vocal opposition to Republicans supporting former President Donald Trump, after she voted to impeach him for allegedly inciting the Jan. 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol by a mob of his supporters.
Stefanik has been widely floated as a replacement for Cheney, and Trump himself issued a statement endorsing her.
But on Tuesday, Roy sent a letter to all House GOP members urging them to pick someone other than Stefanik for the role, citing her "liberal" voting record .
He wrote to his colleagues, "With all due respect to my friend, Elise Stefanik, let us contemplate the message Republican leadership is about to send by rushing to coronate a spokesperson whose voting record embodies much of what led to the 2018 a**-kicking we received by Democrats."
The congressman also said in his letter that he would vote to recall Cheney.
Roy has voted 90% of the time in favor of Trump's positions, compared to Cheney's 65% and Stefanik's 35%.
Anything else?
Meanwhile, Cheney remains defiant after being booted from leadership.
She told NBC News' Savannah Guthrie following the vote that she intends to be "one of the leaders in a fight to help restore" the Republican Party, "in a fight to bring our party back to substance and principles."
When Guthrie noted that Trump's allies were actively seeking to find a primary challenger to oust her from Congress entirely, Cheney replied, "Bring it on."President Joe Biden issued a statement declaring that Israel had a right to defend itself from rocket attacks and many on the left immediately recoiled in horror, including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.).
Israel has been bombarded by dozens of rocket missile attacks for several days while violence from supporters of the Palestinian cause has erupted against Jews in several Israeli cities.
On Wednesday, Biden defended Israel after speaking via telephone with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
"Israel has the right to defend itself when you have thousands of rockets flying into your territory," Biden said to reporters.
"My hope is that we'll see this coming to a conclusion sooner than later," he added.
That support for Israel was reflected in the White House official readout of the call with Netanyahu, which said that Biden reiterated his "unwavering support for Israel's security and for Israel's legitimate right to defend itself and its people, while protecting civilians."
Ocasio-Cortez immediately excoriated Biden for the statement.
"Blanket statements like these w/ little context or acknowledgement of what precipitated this cycle of violence - namely, the expulsions of Palestinians and attacks on Al Aqsa - dehumanize Palestinians & imply the US will look the other way at human rights violations. It's wrong," said Ocasio-Cortez in a tweet.
"By only stepping in to name Hamas' actions - which are condemnable - & refusing to acknowledge the rights of Palestinians, Biden reinforces the false idea that Palestinians instigated this cycle of violence," she added.
"This is not neutral language," she concluded. "It takes a side - the side of occupation."
Others on the left condemned Biden for voicing support for Israel.
"What a shameful, terrible statement," said columnist Wajahat Ali. "Biden could have condemned Hamas, attacks on civilians, and affirmed Israel's right to exist, and also condemned Israel for forced evictions, escalating tensions at Al Aqsa, Gaza strikes, the killing of Palestinian children, and, you know, continuing illegal settlements."
Ocasio-Cortez used similar language to berate New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang into acquiescing to her demands after he issued a tweet of support for Israel.
At last count, at least 65 people in the Gaza Strip had died from the latest conflict, while about 6 had died in Israel, according to Reuters.
Here's Biden's comments about Israel:Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine (R) announced Wednesday that the state will soon hold lottery drawings exclusively for vaccinated adults, and winners will take home $1 million each.
What are the details?
DeWine revealed the new plan during an address to his state, touting the progress Ohioans have made in the fight against COVID-19 and announcing that state government's coronavirus restrictions would end on June 2 — outside of nursing homes and assisted living facilities.
He then offered incentives for more people to get vaccinated against the virus.
"Two weeks from tonight on May 26th, we will announce a winner of a separate drawing for adults who have received at least their first dose of the vaccine," DeWine explained in a tweet. "This announcement will occur each Wednesday for five weeks, and the winner each Wednesday will receive $1 million dollars."
The Republican noted that the drawings would be conducted by the Ohio Lottery, sponsored by the Ohio Department of Health, and "the money will come from existing federal Coronavirus Relief funds."
"I know that some may say, 'DeWine, you're crazy! This million-dollar drawing idea of yours is a waste of money,'" he wrote in a later tweet. "But truly, the real waste at this point in the pandemic -- when the vaccine is readily available to anyone who wants it -- is a life lost to COVID-19."
The governor also announced that 12 to 17-year-olds who get vaccinated (now that Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine is approved for that age group) will be offered a lottery of their own, where winners "will receive a full, four-year scholarship at our State of Ohio universities," including "tuition, room and board, and books."
DeWine noted that 78% of Ohioans 65 and older have been vaccinated, and he is making a push for the rest of the population to get the shots.
"Our cases are down, but that's only because 42% of our population can no longer get the virus and can no longer spread it" due to vaccination, DeWine said, according to WOIO-TV.
How are people reacting?
The feedback on DeWine's lottery was mixed on social media.
Some people praised the scheme, with one tweeting, "This is genius. That 5 million dollar cost is much less than what the marketing cost would be to convince even half the amount of people to get a dose of the vaccine that a **very slim** chance at one million dollars would convince. Props to whoever thought of that."
Another wrote, "It's a crazy idea, but it will almost certainly get *a lot* of people who otherwise would not get the vaccine to do so. If it gets a few 100,000 extra people vaccinated, it will save the state a ton of money in the long run."
Others slammed the move. One person reacted, "So now we're using tax payers money to bribe parents into getting Covid shots for kids. Lol. DeWine has got to go. This guy is a clown. We have such terrible leadership at the highest levels in Ohio. @GovMikeDeWine role as Governor will terminated next election. Mark my words."
Someone else wrote, "What the hell is this, Mike? I mean, we're used to Republicans wasting our tax money, but I'm pretty sure a lottery wasn't part of the stimulus deal. A million dollars could be used so much better elsewhere. Does Washington know you're misappropriating our money?"New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang appeared to apologize for a tweet condemning the terrorist attacks by Hamas militants on Israel after public outrage by the left and some of his own supporters.
"I'm standing with the people of Israel who are coming under bombardment attacks, and condemn the Hamas terrorists," said Yang in a tweet on Monday.
Yang, who is one of the front-runners in the mayoral race, was harangued by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) about the tweet on Tuesday but by Wednesday he acquiesced and cited many other detractors in his apology.
"I spoke to a group of volunteers for the campaign yesterday, some of whom have been with me for years. Many of them were upset with my recent tweet expressing solidarity with the people of Israel in conjunction with the violence in the region this week that has claimed the lives of innocents and children on both sides," said Yang in the lengthy statement posted to Twitter.
"They felt that my tweet was overly simplistic in my treatment of a conflict that has a long and complex history full of tragedies. And they felt it failed to acknowledge the pain and suffering on both sides. They were, of course, correct," he continued.
"I mourn for every Palestinian life taken before its time as I do for every Israeli," he continued. "Suffering and pain and violence and death suffered by anyone hurts us all. All people want to be able to live in peace. We all ways that for ourselves and our children."
Despite the clarification by Yang, many of his detractors were still unhappy that he did not condemn Israel in his new statement.
"The most telling part of @AndrewYang's erasure of Palestinian human rights, is he even used his apology to to say he's choosing sides. And that side is Israel," responded one critic on Twitter.
Yang wasn't the only mayoral candidate to have public relations troubles this week. Two candidates were mocked and ridiculed after they severely underestimated the cost of housing in NYC during a candidate interview.
Here's more on Yang's flip-flop on Israel:The man suspected of shooting three people, including a 4-year-old little girl, in New York City's Times Square over the weekend has been apprehended by U.S. Marshals in Florida.
What are the details?
Farrakhan Muhammad, 31, was found at a McDonald's parking lot outside of Jacksonville, Florida, where he was found eating lunch inside a vehicle with his girlfriend, WLNY-TV reported. Authorities said Muhammad did not resist arrest.
The arrest ends a four-day manhunt for Muhammad, who fled New York after allegedly opening fire in Times Square on Saturday afternoon during a purported dispute with his own brother. All three people shot in the incident — a 43-year-old New Jersey woman, a 23-year-old Rhode Island, and a 4-year-old girl from Brooklyn — are expected to survive their injuries.
"If you can only imagine," NYPD Chief of Detective James Essig told reporters in a Wednesday media conference. "It's a daytime shooting, Times Square, thousands of hours of video cameras to be viewed, witnesses to be interviewed, the eyes of the world were on them, they were watching. And here we are: Four days later with an apprehension."
Essig added, "Truly a great job by the New York City police detectives."
Law enforcement agencies in several states assisted in the search for Muhammad, who changed his appearance following the shooting by "shaving off some of his dreadlocks," USA Today reported.
Muhammad and his girlfriend had earlier been spotted at a Walmart in North Carolina, buying dog food for two dogs the pair brought along with them. The girlfriend is considered a person of interest, but she has not been charged and is not in police custody, according to ABC News.
Muhammad's brother told investigators that he was the target of shooting, but the motive is still under investigation. The brothers both purportedly sell CDs illegally as street vendors, and their fight reportedly began over turf in Times Square.House Republicans introduced a bill Wednesday to set term limits on appointees to direct the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which would effectively fire top White House chief medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci.
The bill, titled the "Fauci's Incompetence Requires Early Dismissal (FIRED) Act, was introduced by Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) and co-sponsored by several House conservatives including Reps. Chip Roy (R-Texas), Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.), and Ralph Norman (R-S.C.). It would set a retroactive 12-year term limit on the NIAID director, a position held by Fauci since 1984.
Should it become law, Fauci would be forced to leave his job.
"In the wake of massive missteps by Dr. Fauci and his subordinates in the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, this bill addresses an oft-overlooked issue: The lack of accountability for unelected bureaucrats," a press statement from Davidson's office reads.
"Under Dr. Fauci's guidance, Americans have lost confidence in the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control, leading to confusion and serious government overreach that has threatened Americans' livelihoods and freedoms. Despite successful treatment therapies, a historic vaccination development, and decreasing cases, Dr. Fauci has continued to advise healthy, low-risk Americans to continue to act as if the pandemic were out of control — after overseeing nearly a year of draconian public health policies that have decimated the U.S. economy," the statement said.
"Dr. Fauci represents everything that President Eisenhower warned us about in his farewell address: The scientific-technical elite steering the country toward their own ends," Davison said. "Americans have had decades of Dr. Fauci's leadership, and he publicly failed to respond appropriately to the COVID-19 pandemic. It is time for him to step aside so that new leadership can 'follow the science' and start reopening America.'"
[twitter_embed https://twitter.com/taylorpopielarz/statuses/1392570346147131399 iframe_id="twitter-embed-1392570346147131399" created_ts=1620849617 name="Taylor Popielarz" embed_mobile_width=375 text="Inbox:
\"Today, [#OH8 GOP] Representative @WarrenDavidson introduced the FIRED (Fauci Incompetence Requires Early Dismissal) Act...\"pic.twitter.com/DdUCyOjXor" padding_desktop=130 embed_desktop_height=718 embed_desktop_width=550 padding_mobile=158 embed_mobile_height=595 id="1392570346147131399" expand=1 screen_name="taylorpopielarz"]
The bill has no chance of becoming law with Democrats in control of Congress and President Joe Biden in the White House, but it does reflect growing frustrations among Republicans with Fauci and other Biden administration health officials.
On Tuesday, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) clashed with Fauci during a hearing on the pandemic response over NIH funding for research conducted at the Wuhan Institute of Virology — the Chinese lab that some suspect may have contributed to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Paul accused Fauci of supporting risky "gain of function research," which involves manipulating naturally occurring viral diseases to be able to infect humans and studying how they might evolve.
Fauci denied that NIH ever funded the risky research, which some warn could cause a pandemic if an artificial virus is leaked or deliberately released to the public.A terrifying home surveillance video shows an incensed man walking up to the front door of a home a few miles north of Pensacola, Florida, last week and beginning to kick in the front door.
"F***in' play, bitch? You wanna f***in' play? You wanna f***in' play? Let's play! F***in' bitch!" the man yells into the home before turning his back to the front door and bashing it with the bottom of his boot.
Image source: Facebook video screenshot via @NorthEscambia
After the 10th kick, he enters the residence and was heard screaming, "Let's f***in' play! Let's f***in' play! You wanna f***in' play with my kids?"
What happened next?
The surveillance clip of the May 5 incident ended at that point, but the Escambia County Sheriff's Office told NorthEscambia.com that once inside, the suspect armed himself with a knife and hollered that he was there to harm his children's mother.
The sheriff's office said the man searched room to room and threatened the occupants who had taken refuge in a bedroom in the back of the house, the outlet said.
The ESCO told NorthEscambia that the man confronted a female in the rear bedroom, who feared for her life, so she shot the intruder twice.
Deputies arrived at the scene just after 5 p.m. Tuesday to investigate a call about a disturbance that included a shooting, the outlet said.
Deputies found a 54-year old man dead from an apparent gunshot wound to the head, NorthEscambia reported.
At the time of the incident, the outlet said the suspect had an active domestic violence injunction filed on him, adding that investigators said he was reportedly on his way to anger management when it all went down.
Now what?
The sheriff's department said charges will not be filed against the individual who shot and killed the intruder, NorthEscambia noted.
"Florida State statute allows people to take reasonable steps to protect themselves from harm," Sheriff Chip Simmons said, according to the outlet. "You can see from the video; his demeanor and intent were clear. The Escambia County Sheriff's Office will defend a person's right to reasonably protect themselves against harm, even with the use of deadly force. We do not intend to bring charges against the occupant of the home."
No names have been released in relation to the incident, NorthEscambia added.
Here's the clip. Content warning: Language:Minneapolis made waves last year as it got the leftist mantra of "defund the police" rolling to the point that it became a national movement and political priority for much of the progressive left in 2020. Now the mayor has admitted that the loud cries to get rid of the police contributed to the current spike in crime.
What's going on now?
The city council vowed last year in the wake of the death of George Floyd to get rid of the police, and Mayor Jacob Frey did little to stand in their way, despite claiming that he did not want to fully abolish the police — which famously upset protesters who confronted him on the subject.
As the movement to defund the police gained steam, crime in the city began to increase as cops left the force. After a while, the same city council that trashed cops and threatened to gut their departments realized the city needed help, and they were forced to outsource its police work.
Just a few months later, the council voted so spend an additional $6.4 million on the police. But the damage had already been done.
Crime has been spiking in Minneapolis. Just last weekend, seven people were shot in a span of 12 hours, according to WCCO-TV.
The problem has become so severe that Mayor Frey is holding meetings with community leaders in an attempt find solutions to the spike in violent crime. And he has been forced to admit that the calls to abolish the police are at least partly responsible.
Last Friday, Frey told citizens the city needs to get to work stopping the criminals.
"The violence needs to stop, it's unacceptable," he said, WCCO reported. "People deserve to feel safe in their neighborhood, they deserve to be able to send their kids out to the sidewalk to play and to recreate without bullets flying by. That's unacceptable. We should be holding those perpetrators accountable."
He added that the city currently doesn't have enough officers to respond to the city's crime needs, and he hopes city council members will actually try to work with Police Chief Medaria Arradondo.
"It's going to take a very comprehensive effort," Frey added. "Yes, it includes safety beyond policing, and it includes police. And, you know, I'm one that has been working lock step with our Chief Arradondo, and I'm calling on the council members to try to work with him as well."
What else?
But at least one community leader, Pastor Dale Hume, was not going to let the city's leadership off the hook easily and made sure to let Frey know that the anti-police rhetoric coming from the city council played a role in the spike in crime.
"To people who think that the easy solution to this is defund the police, when you live here and something like this happens, you can obviously see that is not the solution," Hume said, WCCO reported.
Frey said he agrees.
"It's just the reality of the solution, you know," the mayor admitted. "When you make big, overarching statements that we're going to defund or abolish and dismantle the police department and get rid of all the officers, there's an impact to that."
He added, "We need accountability and culture shift within our department, and we need police."
According to WCCO, the mayor intends to release a new plan this week that includes increased public safety and police accountability.
(H/T: HotAir)Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) fired back at MSNBC host Joy Reid after she said Tuesday that Cruz was betraying his race by opposing the "For the People Act," a sweeping piece of legislation supported by Democrats that would radically transform state and federal elections laws.
Earlier this week, Cruz flipped the script on Democrats by claiming the "For the People Act" would weaken election security and implement "Jim Crow 2.0" to "steal voting rights from the American people." His use of the phrase "Jim Crow 2.0" was cheeky — it's the same phrase Democrats have used to describe new Republican-supported election integrity laws in Georgia, Florida, Texas, and elsewhere.
On a panel discussing the legislation with Sen. Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) and NAACP attorney Janai Nelson, Reid and the others agreed that Cruz's opposition to the bill and his use of the term "Jim Crow" was "beyond offensive."
She called Cruz "Stephen from Django Unchained," referring to the character Stephen from the 2012 Quentin Tarantino film who is a house slave in antebellum Mississippi that supports his cruel master's oppression of the other black slaves.
"Ted Cruz says a lot of stupid things. He does a lot of stupid things. But I personally, as a person of color, as a black person, am beyond offended that he would dare use the word 'Jim Crow' when his party is literally a 'Jim Crow' party at this point trying to suppress the votes of people, including in his home state," Reid said.
Continuing, Reid said Cruz "could give a damn about Jim Crow" and claimed without evidence that he "never raised once concern ever in his entire life ... about Jim Crow or racism or discrimination." She accused Republicans of wanting to prevent non-white people from voting and claimed that without the "For the People Act" overturning election security measures, the United States "may never get another free and fair election again."
"I think what you see here on your screen is what Republicans fear in the voting booth," Reid said, gesturing to guests Padilla and Nelson and referring to their skin color. "And they're going to do everything they can to make sure it doesn't happen, including Stephen from Django Unchained, AKA Ted Cruz, who is working to stop fellow people of color from voting, which is amazing."
Cruz responded to Reid's racist remarks Wednesday, accusing Reid of using a racial slur.
"I appreciate MSNBC lecturing me on how people of "my race" are supposed to vote. This arrogant condescension is a big reason Hispanic voters are moving right in large numbers," Cruz tweeted. "Also, why is MSNBC ok with their hosts using overt racial slurs ('Stephen from Django')?"Actress Bette Midler's posted a tweet about threatening to expose allergic children to peanuts that fell flat for many social media followers. Midler took heat on Sunday after she shared a tweet about forcing parents to vaccinate their children against the coronavirus.
In her tweet, Midler compared permitting unvaccinated children to attend schools to bringing peanut products to the classroom despite the danger children who may have peanut allergies could face.
She shared, "If my kid can't bring peanut butter to school then yours can't bring the deathly plague. Vaccinate or I'm bringing the Jiffy."
What else?
The Food and Drug Administration did not announce the authorized emergency use of Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine for children ages 12 to 15 years until Monday, one day after Midler's tweet.
Children who are allergic to peanuts and peanut products can sometimes find themselves in middle of a nasty anaphylaxis response.
Symptoms of anaphylaxis, according to the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology, include "impaired breathing, swelling in the throat, a sudden drop in blood pressure, pale skin or blue lips, fainting, and dizziness."
What was the response?
One mom, who referred to herself as "super liberal," took Midler to task over her remarks.
She wrote, "I'm super liberal, very pro vax and science but this isn't funny. My son, like millions of others is severely allergic to peanuts and tree nuts! If he touches it he gets hives. If he eats even the tiniest amount, his throat closes, no amount of CPR would help. Do better!"
Another user added, "We are vaccinated. Our kids can't be vaccinated yet. Parents of kids with allergies have seen epi pens save their kids lives. We are pro science. Imagine volunteering to vaccinate your community and seeing this after holding your kid in anaphylaxis because this threat happened?"
"'Get vaccinated or I'm gonna start killing kids with peanut allergies' is definitely a sales pitch," one user countered.
Another user pointed out that Midler's remarks were insensitive at best, and wrote, "There are better analogies than this. As someone who has two kids allergic to peanuts this is just stupid."
"Choosy moms choose Jif and there is no FDA approved pediatric coronavirus vax as of today," another user tweeted on Sunday. "I'm not certain where you're going with this meme but wishing death on children is certainly a call for self reflection."
Midler has not issued any updates on the backlash she received following the controversial Sunday tweet.YouTube has once again suspended BlazeTV host Steven Crowder's channel, issuing a second "strike" against the comedian for reportedly violating the platform's harassment and cyber bullying policies with a video on the tragic shooting death of Ma'khia Bryant by a police officer.
Crowder's April 21 show was removed from YouTube. The episode covered how 16-year-old Bryant was attacking another person with a knife before a responding police officer fatally shot her. Crowder and his co-hosts argued that the shooting was justified, making jokes about the circumstances of the shooting. According to YouTube, Crowder's commentary crossed a line that violated its Community Guidelines.
"YouTube Creators share their opinions on a wide range of different topics," the company said in a statement to Crowder's team. "However, there's a line between passionate debate and malicious harassment. Content containing targeted harassment including, but not limited to, stalking, threats, bullying, and intimidation is not allowed on YouTube."
In an email to Crowder's attorney, Bill Richmond, YouTube accused Crowder of "reveling in or mocking" Bryant's death.
"In particular, this video violated the aspect of the policy that prohibits 'content reveling in or mocking the death or serious injury of an identifiable individual.' Accordingly, the video has been removed and a strike has been applied to the Steven Crowder channel. This constitutes the second active strike on the Steven Crowder channel and, as a result, uploads are now suspended for two weeks," the company said.
Crowder's team reported that YouTube also suspended the CrowderBits channel with a hard strike.
YouTube has a three-strike policy when it comes to violations of its Community Guidelines. After an initial warning, the first strike is applied to a channel that violates YouTube's standards and results in account suspension for a minimum of one week. Account privileges will be restored at the end of the week, but the first strike will remain on a user's channel for a 90-day period.
If a channel violates YouTube's guidelines again during those 90 days, it will receive a second strike and be suspended for two weeks. Each strike will not expire until 90 days from the time it was issued.
Three strikes and you're out. If a third strike is applied to a channel within the same 90-day period, that channel will be permanently removed from YouTube.
In response, Crowder accused YouTube of having a double standard on harassment and cyber bullying.
"Why no live show today, you ask? Ah. Well YouTube hit our channel with a second hard strike, saying we violated their harassment guidelines," Crowder tweeted Wednesday. "Which is interesting when you consider all the harassment YouTube allows if it comes from the left ..."
TheBlaze reached out to YouTube for clarification on what specific comments in Crowder's video violated the rules. This story will be updated if YouTube responds.A former teacher's aide at a Texarkana, Texas, high school testified that she wasn't aware that sex with students is forbidden for all staff members, as opposed to just teachers — and in the end, 24-year-old Ashlyn Faye Bell was sentenced Monday to four years in prison after pleading guilty to sexual misconduct with three underage males.
What's the background?
Testimony at the trial for Bell indicated she made contact with boys she met while working as an aide at Texas High School, the Texarkana Gazette reported, after which she picked them up from truck stops and their homes in the middle of the night — often with her 3-year-old daughter in the back seat. The paper reported that Bell took the boys to her home in New Boston where she had sex with them.
But Bell testified that she didn't realize Texarkana Independent School District policy prohibited all staff members from having sex with students, as opposed to teachers only, the Gazette said. However, a prosecuting attorney referred to documents Bell signed at new employee orientation regarding sexual harassment of staff and students — and that Bell earned a 90% on a related test, the paper reported.
Bell also claimed she believed the boys were 18, the Gazette noted, adding that victims testified that she told them she could get in trouble over the illicit relationships.
How did she plead?
Bell pleaded guilty last month to two counts of improper relationship between educator and student involving two 17-year-old boys and two counts of sexual assault of a child involving a 16-year-old boy, the paper said in a later story. She was sentenced to four years in prison on one count of sexual assault of a child and received probation for the other three counts, the Gazette added.
Anything else?
The judge ordered Bell to be supervised on a sex offender caseload once she's released from prison, the paper said, adding that she will be required to register as a sex offender. The Gazette added that Texas parole officials will not be able to consider Bell for release for two years.A Stockton, California, police officer is dead after a suspect shot him multiple times as he arrived at a domestic violence call Tuesday morning.
The suspect was also reportedly shot during the incident and later died from his injuries.
The Stockton officer is the second California police officer in as many days to die at the hands of violent criminals.
What are the details?
KABC-TV identified the law enforcement official as Officer Jimmy Inn of the Stockton Police Department.
The suspect, identified by KCRA-TV as 30-year-old Lance Lowe, reportedly fatally shot Inn as the officer responded to a domestic violence call at Lowe's home.
KCRA reported, "Inn arrived [at the scene] around 10:07 a.m. and knocked on the door before standing off to the side. A voice came from inside the home and said, 'Hey, police' before that person, later identified as 30-year-old Lance Lowe, fired a gun multiple times at Inn."
KCRA said that a second Stockton police officer, Pancho Freer, was near the scene. When he arrived, he reportedly spotted Lowe standing over Inn while holding a gun. Lowe then reportedly shot at Freer before the officer returned gunfire.
"The suspect then went into the home and returned moments later holding a young child," KABC's report continued. "The suspect began to strangle the child, an 8-year-old boy."
A bystander then purportedly tackled Lowe, allowing time for Freer to fire on the suspect.
Lowe was transported to a local hospital for injuries and later died.
The child was not hurt during the attack.
KCRA-TV reported that area residents said they heard 10 to 15 gunshots during the time Inn was killed. A patrol car riddled with bullet holes was parked at the scene of the crime.
Stockton Police Chief Eric Jones said that the attack on Inn was a "violent, blatant, and very sudden assault," the station reported.
In a statement shared on Twitter, the department said, "It is with great sadness that we announce Officer Jimmy Inn was shot & killed in the line of duty while on a DV call this morning. The suspect was also shot & killed by another SPD officer. Officer Inn was hired in 2015 & was a member of our honor guard."
The 30-year-old police officer is survived by his wife, who is also a Stockton police officer. Inn leaves behind a 7-month-old son, a 12-year-old stepdaughter, and a 14-year-old stepson.
What else?
Inn's shooting death came just one day after a suspect fatally shot a San Luis Obispo police officer and wounded another as the two attempted to execute a search warrant.
Authorities discovered the suspect, identified by authorities as 37-year-old Edward Zamora Giron, later in the day with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.
Detective Luca Benedetti died as a result of the shooting.
Detective Steve Orozco was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment and released.
In a Tuesday news conference, acting San Luis Obispo Police Chief Brian Amoroso called Benedetti a "talented detective."
"I had the distinct pleasure of working with Luca over the past nine years," Amoroso said in his remarks. "I considered him a personal friend, a dedicated officer, a talented detective, a proud member of the San Luis Obispo regional SWAT team, and most importantly, a loving husband and father."The San Francisco Unified School District is being accused of a "blatant money grab" after concocting a plan to have high school students briefly return to in-person school in order to nab millions in state reopening funds.
What are the details?
The San Francisco teachers' union recently announced that high school seniors would get to return to in-person school starting this Friday.
The union described the development as "exciting news," and union President Susan Solomon told the San Francisco Chronicle the return would allow seniors to spend time with friends and teachers before graduation.
"UESF brought the initial proposal to SFUSD so that our current graduating seniors would have the opportunity to spend some time in-person on campus with teachers and their peers during their last few weeks of high school as they say goodbye to classmates and prepare for graduation and the next chapter of their lives," Solomon said.
But what the teachers' union did not say is that the return would be for one day only — and students would not even be in the classroom with their teachers.
According to Chronicle, the city school district and teachers' union agreed to a deal that would bring the class of 2021 to school "for at least one day before the end of the school year" so that "the city's public schools can qualify for $12 million in state reopening funds."
To obtain the reopening funds, California law required school districts to reopen in-person instruction for elementary students and at least one entire middle or high school grade. The deadline to qualify for the funds is May 15, one day after the SFUSD and San Francisco teachers' union suddenly agreed on an in-person return for seniors.
As part of the deal, seniors will be allowed to attend in-person at "one of two school sites," and instead of instruction from their teachers, they will receive "in-person supervision."
More from the Chronicle:
Each cohort of students would have two teachers or staff supervising them on campus. Activities might include "end of high school conversations," or "college and career exploration," district officials said, who were still working out the cohort size. Only two high school sites would be made available to seniors, meaning most who do return won't be at their own school. As of Monday, it was unclear how many students would accept the offer, with the district polling families to see how many of the 4,000 12th graders want to return.
What was the reaction?
Decreasing the Distance, a San Francisco group advocating in-person learning, slammed the decision.
"What message does this give our kids about what they are worth and how adults take care of our vulnerable populations, including kids? Does this show them that they matter, or just that the money matters?" the group told the Chronicle. "One senior told us she wants to return, but not like this. Her reaction: 'It's too little too late. School's over.'"
Meanwhile, California state Rep. Phil Ting (D) said San Francisco might not qualify for the funds because the deal is violating the spirit of the incentive, which was to promote a permanent return to in-person learning.
"It definitely doesn't meet the spirit of the law," Ting said. "Kids were supposed to come back in person. Kids were supposed to come back to learn."
How is COVID in SF schools?
Despite being one of the last school districts in the country to return to some in-person learning — elementary students and some middle and high school students returned last month — in-person transmission of COVID-19 has been virtually nonexistent.
In fact, since 20,000 students and staff returned last month, there have been only 20 positive COVID cases inside San Francisco schools.
Of those, zero originated from within school buildings.
"In other words, zero cases were related to in-school transmission at SFUSD," the city Department of Public Health said.Actress Veena Malik — sometimes known as Zahida Malik — raised eyebrows after she tweeted a quote she attributed to Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler, which referenced killing Jews across the world.
Malik's tweet came at a time when clashes between Israel and Palestine have hit a fevered pitch.
What are the details?
According to a Wednesday report from the Post Millennial, the 37-year-old Pakistani Muslim actress tweeted a graphic that read, "I would have killed all the Jews of the world ... but I kept some to show the world why I killed them. Adolf Hitler"
It remains unknown whether the Nazi dictator ever actually uttered or wrote those words.
While the offending tweet is gone, the actress's Twitter page remains active at the time of this reporting.
New York Magazine writer Yashar Ali captured the tweet before it was deleted.
Ali tweeted, "How is this still up???" and later added, "This tweet is now gone along with a bunch of other tweets on her account. Looking forward to an apology from all those who doubted me."
What else?
The actress has yet to issue a statement of apology or clarification at the time of this reporting.
According to OpIndia, Malik has been recently outspoken in her condemnation of Jews.
The outlet reported, "Malik has since been glorifying the attack on Israelis and cheering the death and destruction. In her subsequent tweets in Urdu, she urged Muslims to not be disheartened and said that if they are truly 'believers,' then they would be proud."
On Tuesday night, Palestinians carried out ruthless attacks on Israelis with rockets and more.
Amid the chaos, Israeli city of Lod Mayor Yair Revivo compared the deadly attacks to the Nazi campaign of death against Jews and said, "This is Kristallnacht."
In remarks, Revivo implored the nation's prime minister to declare a state of emergency.
"This is Kristallnacht in Lod," said Mayor Yair Revivo. "I have called on the prime minister to declare a state of emergency in Lod. To call in the [Israel Defense Forces]. To impose a curfew. To restore quiet. ... There is a failure of governance. ... This is a giant incident — an Intifada of Arab Israelis. All the work we have done here for years [on coexistence] has gone down the drain."
He added, "All of Israel should know, this is a complete loss of control. ... This is unthinkable. Synagogues are being burned. Hundreds of cars set alight. Hundreds of Arab thugs are roaming the streets. ... Civil war has erupted in Lod. ... The Orthodox-nationalist community here has guns. I'm imploring them to go back home but they understandably want to protect their homes. Petrol bombs are being thrown into [Jewish] homes. The situation is incendiary."
According to the New York Post, Hamas on Tuesday fired at least 130 rockets at Tel Aviv alone.Inflation rose more than expected in April, with prices rising at the fastest rate in more than 12 years as the federal government continues to pump trillions of dollars into the economy to spur recovery after the pandemic.
The Labor Department reported Wednesday that the Consumer Price Index, a measure of prices paid for goods and services, including housing and energy costs, rose 4.2% from where it was a year ago. Economists had predicted only a 3.6% increase. Inflation rose by 0.8% in April vs. the expected 0.2% increase.
Because food and energy prices can change quickly with supply or demand shocks, a more stable measure of inflation is core CPI, which excludes those prices. Core CPI increased 3% over the last year and 0.9% in April. The estimated increases were 2.3% and 0.3% respectively.
An inflation increase of 4.2% is the fastest increase in inflation since 2008.
More from CNBC:
Energy prices overall jumped 25% from a year earlier, including a 49.6% increase for gasoline and 37.3% for fuel oil. That came even though most energy categories saw a decline in April.
Prices at the pump, which fell 1.4% in April, have resumed their climb in May, with the national average eclipsing $3 a gallon for the first time since November 2014, according to AAA. Further rises are likely from Friday's cyberattack that shut down Colonial Pipeline's main transmission line from Houston to New Jersey.
Used car and truck prices, which are seen as a key inflation indicator, surged 21%, including a 10% increase in April alone. Shelter, another key CPI component, was up 2.1% year over year and 0.4% for the month.
World events have also caused prices to rise, including production issues with semiconductors found in electronics products, the Suez Canal blockage in March, and increased demand for building materials like lumber after severe weather in Texas and elsewhere in the U.S.
The staggering rise in prices comes on the heels of a disappointing jobs report for April, when only 266,000 new jobs were created instead of an expected 1 million jobs and the unemployment rate rose from 6% to 6.1%.
Some economists had warned that President Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan might inject too much money into the economy, leading to depreciating value of the dollar. Lawrence Summers, an economic adviser to President Barack Obama, wrote an op-ed for the Washington Post raising concerns that Biden's stimulus might cause "inflationary pressures of a kind we have not seen in a generation, with consequences for the value of the dollar and financial stability."
Olivier Blanchard, former chief economist at the IMF, likewise warned that Biden's coronavirus relief package could "overheat the economy so badly as to be counterproductive."
The specter of a stagnant economy with rising inflation haunts these economists' nightmares. The 1970s and early '80s were notorious for a phenomena known as "stagflation" — where prices and unemployment were rising together. In 1975, inflation reached a peak of 10.1% before falling to 5.9% the next year. By 1981, inflation had risen again to 9.6%.
A sharp increase in inflation could spur the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates in an attempt to discourage consumer spending and encourage savings, which would lower prices but contract the economy. Rising interest rates increase the cost of credit cards, loans, and mortgages, but also improve the earnings on savings accounts and certificates of deposits (CDs).
Since the 2008 financial crisis, the Federal Reserve has set a target interest rate near zero instead of its traditional target of 2% annual inflation to encourage consumer spending and investments and boost recovery. Federal Reserve officials have gone on the record saying there are no plans to raise interest rates until the inflation rate averages around 2% for an extended period.
For now, policymakers are unconcerned with April's increase in inflation, claiming the numbers are higher because inflation reached significant lows at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and the shutdown of the U.S. economy. They indicate it is possible that inflation will be distorted for a few months because of the pandemic response.Former NFL linebacker Brandon Spikes hit out at the "race bulls**t" that ensued after it was announced former NFL quarterback Tim Tebow would likely return to the NFL.
Many people railed against the NFL for its interest in Tebow while former NFL quarterback-turned-activist Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned for several seasons in a row.
Various reports have indicated that 33-year-old Tebow — former NFL quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner — could sign a one-year contract to play tight end with the Jacksonville Jaguars this week.
What are the details?
Spikes — who played college football with Tebow for the Florida Gators — railed against the criticism on Tuesday, writing, "Shessh why sooo much hate for my bruh Tebow?"
He later added, "I'm gonna call Urb and see if i can get a job as the head Equipment Manager for the jaguars lol. So y'all can stop pulling this race bulls**t! This ain't that. It's all about their relationship built people."
Image source: Twitter screenshot
Spikes. who played six seasons in the NFL with the New England Patriots and Buffalo Bills, also pointed out that he believes Tebow will serve as an inspiration in the locker room.
He wrote, "Tim Tebow will be an inspiration in any locker room trust me i know."
As previously reported by Blaze Media, myriad social media users ran with the reports and suggested that race and white supremacy were factors in the alleged decision.
Actor Steven Pasquale tweeted about the news, said that white privilege was at the root of the purported decision.
"Tim Tebow finding a team and Colin Kaepernick can't. White privilege NFL style," he wrote. "Tebow can't throw, never could, never played TE, and hasn't played in .... what ... 8 years? Explain it to me like I'm 5."
Anything else to know?
In 2017, NFL great Joe Montana told the Sporting News that he believed Kaepernick would be a "distraction" to the NFL, and compared Kaepernick's quarterbacking skills to those of Tebow.
Montana, a three-time Super Bowl MVP, said that he would be fine never seeing Kaepernick play in the NFL again.
“Everyone thinks it is the stance [Kaepernick] took; one of the things you don't look for is distractions in the locker room," Montana said at the time. “You can go back to Bill Walsh and as soon as there were guys that weren't fitting in what he was looking for, it didn't matter how good you were. You weren't on the team for very long.
“You have to have people who want the same thing, fighting for the same thing and willing to put in the time," he added.
The outlet reported, "When asked if he thought Kaepernick would be on an NFL roster by the beginning of the season, Montana said, 'I'm not sure, I think [if] there's an injury somewhere he probably gets in.'"
Montana added, “In most cases, you look at Tim Tebow — a great guy and everybody was talking about him. But what it comes down to is 40 percent completion or even in the low 50s, you can't win in the league with that. You won't be in the league very long. It comes down to his play as much as anything."Riddle me this: If the COVID vaccine for adults is so impervious and miraculous that it justifies emergency and immediate use for children after just a few months of trials, then, by definition, there is no need for children to take the vaccine. It can only potentially cause harm, since the virus doesn't affect them, when we already know that any adult has had access to the vaccine for quite some time. If it really works, there should be no concern of unvaccinated children spreading it to vaccinated adults, especially when children's transmission rates are so low to begin with. So what is motivating this frantic rush to experiment on children?
Nobody can justify an emergency use authorization for a novel mRNA vaccine on children because the risks far outweigh any potential benefits. Even if we are to trust Pfizer's own trial data (p. 27) and allow the foxes of profit to guard the academic henhouse, there is a 1-in-333 risk for a serious adverse event (SEA) from the vaccine. Their trial resulted in 5 SEAs out of 1,127 12- to 15-year-olds in the vaccine group, as opposed to 1 in the 1,127 of the placebo group. That was the number of serious adverse events in just 30 days. If this excess absolute risk of 0.003 (0.3%) for SAEs holds up, that means for each 333 children 12-15 years old who are vaccinated, there would be one serious adverse event.
One in 333 doesn't sound like a lot, but it's a lot more than zero, and it's their own biased data. Plus, we have zero trials longer than just one month, so we have no idea about the long-term effects.
So, what are the benefits? There is no data on children, but we know from Israeli data on the Pfizer vaccine for adults published in the New England Journal of Medicine (p.22), that the "needed to treat" number of vaccines to save a life from COVID is 27,778. Their study showed 19 fewer deaths in the vaccine group over the placebo group out of 526,877 people. That is 1/0.00036, which is 27,778.
As Dr. Andy Bostom of Brown University points out, if children 12-15, on average, suffer a serious adverse event every 333 doses, that would add up to about 84 SAEs before you get to one life saved at roughly 27,700 doses.
But the risk vs. return is likely much worse than an 84:1 spread. Remember, the Israeli data covered vaccination for adults only. Now that adults already have access to the vaccine and anyone who is vulnerable is protected, there is zero benefit to going a step farther from the current baseline and vaccinating children. They are exponentially less likely to get seriously ill from the virus and are also much less likely to spread it. And again, any adult who is vulnerable is already vaccinated, so there is no value add to vaccinating kids. Thus, the number needed to treat to save a life at this point for children in a universe of vaccinated adults is likely much higher.
According to statute (21 U.S.C. §360bbb–3(c)(2)(B)), a medical product can only be offered under emergency use if "the known and potential benefits of the product, when used to diagnose, prevent, or treat such disease or condition, outweigh the known and potential risks of the product." There is simply no way this condition can be fulfilled with kids.
Remember, the vaccine companies are absolved of all liability. The entire justification for such a move is that the need for a vaccine is so compelling that we must override all norms related to research, development, and liability. How can anyone possibly say that the risk to children justifies the use of a truncated study period?
Now riddle me this: Why is it that they are rushing an experimental, never-before-used, mRNA on children who don't get critically ill from this virus, yet the government refuses to approve the use of ivermectin, which has been dispensed 3.7 billion times, even for seniors on ventilators with zero options? It takes a court order just to get hospitals to comply.
The answer is that they have to shut down all alternative treatments in order to approve the vaccine. The same statute ((c)(3)) states that the treatment, in this case the vaccine, can only be approved under emergency use if "there is no adequate, approved, and available alternative to the product for diagnosing, preventing, or treating such disease or condition." Were people to know that there are numerous early, middle, and late-stage treatments, it would nuke the market for the vaccines. As such, they must judge the early therapeutics, including those used regularly for other ailments, with an impossible standard, while rushing through the vaccines at all costs.
Haven't we used children enough to assuage our guilt the past year? Can we just leave them alone?University of Colorado Mark Kennedy is stepping down after he informally referred to the "Trail of Tears" in front of faculty in late 2020, which led to his censure this year, the Hill reported.
What are the details?
Historically the "Trail of Tears" refers to the forced westward relocation of about 100,000 Native Americans in the 1830s, which resulted in more than 15,000 deaths. But Kennedy used the term to describe what would happen if the school failed in its online learning efforts.
"On-campus is declining and online is growing. If we don't get online right ... we have a trail of tears in front of us," Kennedy said during the late summer faculty meeting, according to the Denver Post.
The school's Center for Native American and Indigenous Studies soon after criticized Kennedy's words, the paper said.
Kennedy — a former Republican congressman — became CU's president in 2019, which ignited protests from students and faculty over his voting record against gay marriage and previous comments about diversity, the Hill said, citing a separate Post story.
Early this year, CU's board of regents censured Kennedy over his comments on diversity, the Hill said, adding that faculty followed suit in March with a censure vote over "his failure of leadership with respect to diversity, equity, and inclusion." Students censured Kennedy for the same reasons in April, the Hill said.
Stepping down
The Hill said Kennedy penned a letter to the university community Monday regarding his resignation as president and pointed out recent changes to the school's board of regents and a new focus.
"The Board of Regents and I have entered into discussions about an orderly transition of the presidency of the University of Colorado in the near future," Kennedy said in his letter, according to the Hill. "The Board of Regents has a new makeup this year, which has led to changes in its focus and philosophy."Border apprehensions during the month of April reached a new 20-year record, breaking the previous record set in March.
"CBP continues to see a large influx of illegal migration along the Southwest Border," Customs and Border Protection chief Troy Miller said.
How many migrants came in April?
CBP agents encountered 178,622 migrants attempting to enter the U.S. via the southern border last month, a 3% increase over March.
The number is more than 10 times greater than April 2020, when 17,106 migrants were caught at the southern border.
In fact, border apprehensions during President Joe Biden's first three full months in office — February, March, and April — now exceed all total apprehensions during fiscal year 2020, the last complete fiscal year prior to Biden's presidency.
According to CBP data, single adults constituted the majority of all migrant encounters last month. Meanwhile, CBP deported more than 111,000 adults back to Mexico under the Title 42 public health order. CBP said 62.5% of all adult encounters resulted in a Title 42 deportation.
What about unaccompanied minors?
Fortunately, encounters of unaccompanied minors dropped 12% last month from 15,918 in March to 13,962.
The CBP celebrated the fact that most unaccompanied minors who crossed the border are no longer in CBP custody, saying only 455 minors remained in the agency's care as of Tuesday.
However, that statistic may be misleading. While the number of children in CBP custody is down significantly, many of those children remain in government care — just under a different department, the Department of Health and Human Services.
In fact, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) is accusing the Biden administration of playing a "shell game" with unaccompanied migrant children to mislead the public.
"What they're doing now is they're moving the kids from the Border Patrol tents over to, next door, to the HHS facility," Cuellar said. "With all due respect, it's all been a shell game."
Cuellar has been one of Biden's most vocal critics during the border crisis. Cuellar represents a congressional district on the U.S.-Mexico border, so he understands the realities of the border crisis. Cuellar has said that Biden's immigration policies and his promises to reverse former President Donald Trump's deterrent policies have contributed to the border crisis.
Anything else?
Mark Morgan, former acting CBP commissioner, reacted to April's numbers by claiming the message from Biden remains the same.
"The message is clear—America's borders are open," Morgan said, the Daily Wire reported. "If you make it to the border as an unaccompanied minor or as part of a family unit, you will likely be released into the interior. Once that happens, the Biden administration will do nothing to remove you, as the plummeting deportation numbers from ICE make clear. In fact, the Biden administration will push to give you the greatest reward of all—American citizenship via amnesty—in response to your lawbreaking."
Neither Biden nor Vice President Kamala Harris have visited the border during the migrant crisis.The House Republican caucus voted Wednesday to kick Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) from her GOP conference chairman post.
According to Illinois Republican Rep. Adam Kinzinger, the caucus held a voice vote, so no final tally numbers will be known. Kinzinger also said that no replacement had yet been voted on.
Cheney, who served as the No. 3 Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives, was a constant critic of former President Donald Trump and his reported role in the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol. She was one of a handful of Republican lawmakers to vote for impeachment in January, which sent her down a path of constant criticism from Trump, fellow House members, including GOP leadership, and the Wyoming Republican Party, which voted to censure her for her impeachment vote.
A slew of primary challengers have thrown their hats in the ring to take on Cheney in her re-election bid. A recent poll showed that Wyoming Republicans appear ready to send Cheney packing, with more than half of primary voters saying they will vote for anyone but her.
What's going on?
Cheney blamed Trump for the Jan. 6 violence, claiming he "summoned" the rioters and then "lit the flame of this attack." According to Cheney, "Everything that followed was his doing. None of this would have happened without the president. The president could have immediately and forcefully intervened to stop the violence. He did not."
This did not sit well with Trump or many of her fellow Republicans in the U.S. House and in Wyoming, where the state party voted overwhelmingly to censure Cheney in February for "voting to impeach even though the U.S. House didn't offer Trump 'formal hearing or due process,'" the Associated Press reported.
Wednesday's vote was the second time the House GOP held a vote on whether to keep Cheney as conference chairman. In early February, House Republicans voted 145-61 to keep Cheney in her leadership role in a secret ballot.
President Trump has been pushing for Cheney's ouster for weeks and has amped up pressure on the party and criticism of Cheney over the last several days.
Kinzinger, a Cheney supporter who also voted for impeachment, told reporters following Wednesday's vote that though Cheney seemed to have a significant number of supporters, GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy (Calif.) insisted that there be a voice vote in the name of "unity" and to avoid a final vote count. Kinzinger has made his displeasure with Trump and the party leadership known over the last several weeks. Just last weekend on CBS's "Face the Nation," he denounced the efforts to oust Cheney, likening the caucus to the Titanic.
"Right now, it's basically the Titanic. We're like, you know, in the middle of this slow sink. We have a band playing on the deck telling everybody it's fine. And meanwhile, as I've said, you know, Donald Trump's running around trying to find women's clothing and get on the first lifeboat," Kinzinger said.
Cheney spoke to reporters after the vote and said that the GOP needs to have people in leadership who will stand against what she calls President Trump's "big lie" that the 2020 election was stolen.
Leading Republicans have been touting liberal New York Rep. Elise Stefanik as a replacement for Cheney; however, her elevation is not assured. Several conservative GOPers have cautioned the party against putting known liberal in a position of party leadership.
This story has been updated.A suspect who purportedly gunned down his girlfriend and five members of her family was said to be angry that he wasn't invited to a birthday party, according to a report from BuzzFeed News.
The suspect reportedly opened fire on the partygoers on Sunday, killing at least six people before turning the gun on himself.
What are the details?
Authorities have identified the suspect as 23-year-old Teodoro Macias, who they said had a history of "controlling and jealous behavior toward his girlfriend," 28-year-old Sandra Ibarra-Perez.
Ibarra-Perez was killed during the party in addition to her brother Jose Ibarra, 26; her sister Mayra Ibarra de Perez, 33; Mayra's husband Melvin Perez, 30; Melvin's mother, 52-year-old Joana Cruz; and one of Cruz's children, 21-year-old Jose Gutierrez.
Three children under the age of 12 were inside the home at the time of the killings, but they were not injured.
According to the report, Macias arrived at the home on Sunday and shot his victims in "quick succession" before turning the weapon and fatally shooting himself.
A loaded handgun was reportedly recovered from the scene along with 17 shell casings and an empty 15-round magazine.
Colorado Springs Police Lt. Joe Frabbiele said that Macias did not have a criminal history and noted that while there were no documented incidents of violence between Macias and Ibarra-Perez, it was clear that Macias was attempting to "isolate her from her family" and "prevent her from attending family events."
Colorado Springs Police Chief Vince Niski told reporters, "At the core of this horrendous act is domestic violence. No family should ever have to experience this type of loss."
Colorado Springs Mayor John Suthers said that the mass murder was a "terrible tragedy."
"What we have here is a situation where all these people were together. He apparently had anger directed at the adults and his partner, and the tragic consequences are unfathomable," Suthers said.
Police continue to investigate the devastating murders.Two mayoral candidates in New York City went viral after displaying a profound ignorance of the skyrocketing housing costs in the city they want to run.
The candidates were asked in an interview with The New York Times's editorial board to estimate the average home price in Brooklyn and they failed spectacularly.
Shaun Donovan guessed that the average home or apartment would cost "around $100,000."
Critics noted that he had previously worked as the Housing and Urban Development secretary and budget director under former President Obama, and should be much more knowledgable about average home prices.
Investment banker and former Citigroup executive Ray McGuire didn't fare much better. He guessed "somewhere in the $80,000 to $90,000 range, if not higher."
Both of those guesses are a fraction of the answer, which is about $900,000.
While they failed in answering that elementary question about the city they want to run, they were very successful in firing up their critics on social media.
"I don't know how *anyone* could think this, let alone people running for mayor of New York City," replied journalist McKay Coppins.
"How can you fix the city's housing crisis if you're this oblivious?" responded one resident.
"Just like fully living on another planet and running for mayor," responded transgender rights activist Chase Strangio.
"I mean, the other night I paid $16 in Brooklyn for a pre-mixed cocktail that tasted like cough syrup so I'm pretty sure $100K won't even buy you a parking spot," quipped editor Lydia Polgreen.
"Man if you can't estimate within 800,000 DOLLARS the median sale price of a home in your town, not only should you be disqualified from running that town, i'm not entirely convinced you should even be allowed to reside in it," replied writer Albert Burneko.
Donovan later claimed that he misunderstood the question and was guessing the average assessed value of a home in Brooklyn.
Entrepreneur and former presidential candidate Andrew Yang, who touts himself as the "math guy," thought about the question a while and hit the average exactly when he guessed.
Here's more about the NYC mayoral race:A 73-year-old Vietnam veteran was first victimized by armed carjackers and then victimized by Washington, D.C., officials who demanded he pay the tickets the criminals racked up in his stolen car.
Doug Nelson had finished his late shift at the U.S. Postal Service and arrived home just after midnight when he was accosted by a criminal who put a gun to his head and demanded his car.
"As I was exiting the vehicle, this guy came up with the pistol and said 'Give me the car. You know, what's happening. Give me a car,'" Nelson said to WJLA-TV.
Doug and his wife Nancy Nelson thought their troubles were over when the car was returned, but they were just beginning.
Doug and Nancy Nelson received notice after notice about the fines from traffic violations the carjackers committed in the stolen car.
"Over $2,000 worth of fines. Yes. Over $2,000 worth of fines," Nancy Nelson said.
The Nelsons thought they would just notify the District of Columbia that the infractions were made while the car had been stolen and they would dismiss the charges. That is not what happened.
"It came back saying, 'You owe,'" Nancy Nelson said.
The Nelsons tried to clear the issue up personally at numerous government offices but they got the bureaucratic runaround. In the meantime, they were not allowed to drive their vehicle that they depended on to get to work and run their daily errands.
This lasted six months.
"This is not helping me at all. I'm in tears about all of this stuff because we owe over $2,000 for tickets that are not even our fault," said Nancy.
Before the Nelsons were able to make use of one last option, they would need to pay the fines that have been applied during the time they sought to dismiss the tickets. They would need more than $5,000 to do that.
The 7News I-Team reported that D.C. officials would not respond to their requests for two weeks while they sought a way to resolve the issue. Eventually they released a statement saying the tickets had been dismissed.
DC DMV had been communicating with Mr. Nelson since he began the adjudication process related to the six citations issued on November 2, 2020. The initial police incident submitted as part of that process was incomplete and failed to establish that the vehicle was stolen when the citations were issued. Subsequently, DC DMV received a more complete incident report with additional details related to the carjacking incident involving Mr. Nelson's vehicle. As a result, DC DMV Adjudication Services has dismissed the six tickets, as well as the related fines and penalties.
Despite the concession reported to the news station, the Nelsons said that they had never been notified by D.C. officials that the tickets and fines had been dismissed. They also disputed that the DMV had been communicating with them during all that time.
Democrats have made the statehood of Washington, D.C., a major issue in their political platform.Republican Conference Chair Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) took a stand on the House floor Tuesday night, delivering a speech wherein she refused to back down from her insistence that former President Donald Trump is a threat to the Republican Party — and the nation — over his continued claims that the 2020 election was stolen from him.
Cheney's remarks come the night before the GOP plans to vote on booting her from leadership over her views.
What are the details?
The conservative congresswoman from Wyoming noted in the beginning of her speech that the topic on the floor for the evening was "cancel culture," saying that she has "some thoughts about that," but said her remarks would be about "freedom, and our constitutional duty."
Cheney then told stories about people in other nations being threatened with violence for attempting to vote, and of individuals who were killed for pushing back against communist regimes.
"God has blessed America, Mr. Speaker," Cheney said. "But our freedom only survives if we protect it; if we honor our oath — taken before God, in this chamber — to support the Constitution. If we recognize threats to freedom when they arise.
"Today, we face a threat America has never seen before," she continued, speaking of Trump. "A former president, who provoked a violent attack on this Capitol in an effort to steal the election, has resumed his aggressive effort to convince Americans that the election was stolen from him. He risks inciting further violence."
The Wyoming Republican added, "Millions of Americans have been misled by the former president. They have heard only his words, but not the truth as he continues to undermine our Democratic process, sowing seeds of doubt about whether democracy really works at all."
Cheney went on to note that Trump's own DOJ did not find evidence of widespread voter fraud in the 2020 election, before telling her colleagues: "Those who refuse to accept the rulings of our courts are at war with the Constitution."
She added, "This is not about policy. This is not about partisanship. This is about our duty as Americans. Remaining silent, and ignoring the lie, emboldens the liar. I will not participate in that."
Although House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) initially joined Cheney in saying Trump was responsible for the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol by the former president's supporters, McCarthy slated a vote for Wednesday with plans for ousting Cheney over her continued refusal to re-embrace Trump months after she voted in favor of impeaching him following the siege.
Several House members have expressed support for replacing Cheney in the No. 3 spot with Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), who is much more liberal in her views — but staunchly devoted to Trump.New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang condemned Hamas terrorists for attacking Israel and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) called him "utterly shameful" in response.
Yang, an entrepreneur and former presidential candidate, tweeted his support for the Israeli people "who are coming under bombardment attacks" on Monday.
"The people of NYC will always stand with our brothers and sisters in Israel who face down terrorism and persevere," he added.
One NYC woman who did not always stand with Israel was Ocasio-Cortez, who was offended that Yang would offer his support to Israelis while he was scheduled to hand out groceries to Muslims celebrating the end of Ramadan, their religious season.
"Utterly shameful for Yang to try to show up to an Eid event after sending out a chest-thumping statement of support for a strike killing 9 children, especially after his silence as Al-Aqsa was attacked," she tweeted on Tuesday.
Yang told reporters that the organizers of the event asked him to cancel his appearance.
Hamas fired numerous rockets into Israel from the Gaza Strip after violence erupted between Palestinian protesters and police in Jerusalem. The Israelis retaliated with airstrikes on military targets in the Gaza. Palestinians have reported that as many as 20 people died in the airstrikes, including some children.
On Tuesday, violence spilled into the streets of several Israeli cities where Palestinians and their supporters attacked Jews, their homes and their businesses. The mayor of the town of Lod said the attacks were similar to those on Kristallnacht, when Jews were attacked in Nazi Germany.
Skirmishes between the supporters of Israel and those of the Palestinian cause erupted in New York City as well.
Here's more about the expanding conflict in Israel:The NRA's attempt at declaring bankruptcy in its bid to leave New York state for Texas has been dismissed, putting the Second Amendment rights organization at risk of "complete and total shutdown" by New York's attorney general.
What are the details?
The NRA filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in January, explaining in a news release that its aim was to "restructure the Association as a Texas nonprofit to exit what it believes is a corrupt political and regulatory environment in New York."
Months earlier, New York Attorney General Letitia James (D) sued the organization in an attempt to dissolve it entirely over allegations of fraud and misuse of donor funds.
But a judge on Tuesday dismissed the NRA's bankruptcy case, "finding that the NRA was just using the bankruptcy as a vehicle to avoid" James' "attempt to dissolve it for alleged corruption," NPR's Tim Mak reported.
Mak went on to report that in a media call following the news, James said that she will press forward for a 2022 trial against the NRA, where she is seeking the removal of CEO Wayne LaPierre and dissolution of the organization, along with restitution and penalties.
Stephen Gutowski, firearms reporter and founder of TheReload, wrote after the bankruptcy dismissal, "The complete and total shutdown of the NRA is now more likely than ever."
Gutowski explained:
The NRA's bankruptcy strategy was conceived by CEO Wayne LaPierre and outside counsel Bill Brewer, without input from the NRA's full board, as a way to protect the group from dissolution by James. But it was considered a long shot by experts from the beginning with many, including Howard University bankruptcy expert Matthew Bruckner, explicitly calling it a "Hail Mary" maneuver.
Following the judge's dismissal, LaPierre issued the following statement:
"The NRA remains committed to its members and our plan for the future. Although we are disappointed in some aspects of the decision, there is no change in the overall direction of our Association, its programs, or its Second Amendment advocacy.
Today is ultimately about our members — those who stand courageously with the NRA in defense of constitutional freedom. We remain an independent organization that can chart its own course, even as we remain in New York to confront our adversaries. The NRA will keep fighting, as we've done for 150 years."
The NRA also noted that the court found the organization could still make its move to Texas without a bankruptcy filing. The organization also vowed to continue fighting against James, who previously called the NRA a "criminal enterprise" and a "terrorist organization."
This story has been updated.A sketch on "Saturday Night Live" was accused of offensive cultural appropriation in their use of "African American Vernacular English," and the writer of the scene admitted he had never heard of the term.
'SNL' was already facing criticism over its decision to ask Tesla CEO Elon Musk to host the show, but the program received even more ire over its "Gen Z Hospital" sketch.
The sketch used many of the slang terms and phrases that Gen Z is known for, but some of those are also identified as included in African American Vernacular English, or AAVE.
"This Gen Z hospital skit on SNL is so stupid. I'm so tired of nonblack people throwing random AAVE terms in their sentences and calling that horse s*** 'Gen Z language'," said one user on Twitter.
"The appropriation of AAVE by white people is gross, the mislabeling of AAVE as a "Gen Z phenomenon" is also gross, but on top of that, the SNL skit reads like they just pulled a list of terms from UrbanDictionary and sprinkled them in, not caring that AAVE has a defined grammar!" tweeted another offended viewer.
"The primarily white writers of SNL don't even know that Gen Z/Tik-Tok language is hugely composed of appropriated & badly-used AAVE. Their target was specifically the non-Black people badly using AAVE," said another.
Others, even more confusingly, said the sketch did not use AAVE, but was still racist:
"That snl skit was boring and terrible and certainly racist. but it was not aave," said another user.
Sketch writer responds
The criticism appeared to be a surprise to comedian Michael Che, the writer of the sketch who is a black man.
"I've been reading about how my 'gen z' sketch was misappropriating AAVE," he said in a post on Instagram.
"And I was stunned because what the f–k is 'AAVE'? I had to look it up," he continued. "Turns out it's an acronym for 'African American Vernacular English.' You know, AAVE! That ol' saying that actual Black people use in conversation all the time..."
He went on to admit the sketch bombed, and added, "I meant no offense to the 'AAVE' community. I love AAVE. AAVE to the moon."
'SNL' is hardly the first victim of the woke mob for using AAVE while trying to mock Gen Z. YouTube star and comedian Colleen Ballinger apologized profusely in April after using the same slang in a tweet that she later deleted.
"I feel so stupid. I was trying to sound like an awkward mom who uses gen z slang," responded Ballinger. "I am so sorry."
Here's the forbidden 'SNL' AAVE sketch:Hamas militants continued their barrage of rocket fire at Israel on Tuesday, and the violence escalated in the streets to the point that the mayor of one Israeli town called for help and likened the attacks to the Nazi pogrom against German Jews, declaring: "This is Kristallnacht."
What are the details?
The mayor of the central Israeli city of Lod called for the nation's prime minister to declare a state of emergency amid attacks by "Islamists," The Times of Israel reported.
"This is Kristallnacht in Lod," said Mayor Yair Revivo. "I have called on the prime minister to declare a state of emergency in Lod. To call in the [Israel Defense Forces]. To impose a curfew. To restore quiet… There is a failure of governance… This is a giant incident — an Intifada of Arab Israelis. All the work we have done here for years [on coexistence] has gone down the drain."
Revivo went on to say:
"All of Israel should know, this is a complete loss of control… This is unthinkable. Synagogues are being burned. Hundreds of cars set alight. Hundreds of Arab thugs are roaming the streets… Civil war has erupted in Lod… The Orthodox-nationalist community here has guns. I'm imploring them to go back home but they understandably want to protect their homes. Petrol bombs are being thrown into [Jewish] homes. The situation is incendiary."
The New York Post reported that Hamas fired 130 rockets Tuesday just at the city of Tel Aviv alone — which has a population of nearly half a million people.
Video posted online shows Israel's Iron Dome defense system intercepting the rockets. Newsmax foreign correspondant Alex Salvi tweeted of the footage, "Imagine the carnage if these ≈150 rockets landed in Tel Aviv (population of 450,000)."
But Israel has been fighting back. The IDF announced Tuesday that they "killed the commander of the Hamas anti-tank missile unit, Iyad Fathi Faik Sharir," who "was in charge of carrying out anti-tank missile attacks on Israel."
The IDF added, "Our aircraft are currently striking additional terror targets in Gaza."
Reuters reported that over the past two days, 30 Palestinians (including children) and three Israelis (all women) have been killed in the attacks from both sides.
Anything else?
Meanwhile, the escalation overseas has poured over into the U.S. Videos circulated online Tuesday afternoon showing fights breaking out in New York City between pro-Israel and pro-Palestine protesters over the conflict.On the latest episode of "The Rubin Report," BlazeTV host Dave Rubin talked about liberal comedian Sarah Silverman's bizarre rant over California gubernatorial candidate Caitlyn Jenner's opposition to biological boys who are trans participating in all-female school sports.
As both a former Olympic athlete and transgender female, Jenner has taken a strong stance on the controversial issue.
"This is a question of fairness, that's why I oppose biological boys who are trans competing in girls sports in school," Jenner told TMZ. "It just isn't fair, and we have to protect girls sports in our schools."
In response, Silverman went on an unhinged rant during her podcast, accusing Jenner of "transphobia" and calling the prominent transgender celebrity "such a t***."
"A trans girl is a girl. She should have the same rights as cis girls," Silverman said. "What, you think a trans girl is too strong? What about tall girls as opposed to short girls? What about boys in high school who are teeny tiny and their teammates have already hit puberty and are shaving? Why don't you just have co-ed sports divided by weight and height, you know? This is so dumb.
"They are legislating this s*** without one single example of how this plays out. This is not worrying about girls' sports. Uh, believe me. There are better ways to worry about girls' sports. This is not worrying. This is not concern for girls' sports. It's transphobia, full stop. It's such a bummer when such a prominent trans woman is such a t***."
After sharing a video clip from Silverman's podcast, Dave asked, "How does anyone watch that? It's such an unpleasant way of speaking — her certitude about something when she doesn't know what she's talking about.
"All Caitlyn wants, and all most sane people want, is to not have biological boys competing with biological girls in sports ... saying that makes you transphobic?" Dave added.
"And also, the word transphobic — that you have an irrational fear of trans people — it seems to me that Sarah Silverman is transphobic. [...] When Caitlyn Jenner first came out as trans four years ago, she was a hero to all of these people. But then she committed the cardinal sin of woke-ism. She dared start saying what she actually believes, and now she is the enemy. So, it is you, Sarah Silverman, who is transphobic because you have an irrational fear of trans people who think for themselves. Guess what, Sarah Silverman. Not all trans people have to think the way you think they should think. Thus, you are the bigot in this case."
Watch the video below to hear more from Dave Rubin:
Want more from Glenn Beck?
To enjoy more of Glenn's masterful storytelling, thought-provoking analysis and uncanny ability to make sense of the chaos, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.The governors of several Eastern states have declared states of emergencies over gas shortages as the Colonial Pipeline — which supplies 45% of all fuel to the East Coast — remains shut down after being hit with a cyberattack over the weekend.
But officials say the shortages are due to panic-buying, not an actual lack of gas.
What are the details?
On Tuesday, Gov. Roy Cooper (D) of North Carolina, Gov. Brian Kemp (R) of Georgia, and Gov. Ralph Northam (D) of Virginia all declared states of emergency as long lines at pumps and rising gas prices hit their states amid shortages and runs on fueling stations.
Kemp said in a statement:
"Today, I signed an executive order suspending the gas tax in Georgia to help with higher prices as a result of the Colonial cyberattack. We are working closely with Colonial and expect for them to recover by the end of the week," Kemp said, adding, "Unfortunately, extensive media coverage has caused people to panic, which has resulted in higher gas prices."
Newsweek reported that according to "energy data collection website Gas Buddy said that five states—Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia—collectively saw gasoline demand skyrocket more than 40 percent on Monday alone."
On Sunday, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced a regional emergency declaration in response to the cyberattack on the Colonial Pipeline, which the FBI confirmed the next day "was a ransomware attack carried out by criminals belonging to the group known as DarkSide," Fox Business reported.
The Washington Examiner noted that the states impacted by the hack include: Alabama, Arkansas, District of Columbia, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said during a media briefing Tuesday that the southeastern states are not experiencing shortages, but rather, are facing a "supply crunch."
"It's not that we have a gasoline shortage," Granholm said, according to KXEL-AM. "It's that we have this supply crunch, and that things will be back to normal soon, and that we're asking people not to hoard."
Granholm added, "We have gasoline. We just have to get it to the right places."
The Secretary of Energy then conceded that getting the pipeline back up and running would be the "the best way" to solve the problem, as the DOT considers interim solutions such as the possibility of using rail to move gas into the southeast.
Critics were quick to note that President Joe Biden canceled the Keystone XL pipeline shortly after taking office.A boarding school in the United Kingdom secretly turned over its chaplain to an anti-terrorism program after preaching a sermon in which he defended students' rights to question the school's new LGBTQ policies, the Daily Mail reported.
What are the details?
The Rev. Dr. Bernard Randall told students at independent Trent College near Nottingham that it was OK for them to disagree with the policies, especially if they go against Church of England principles, the outlet said.
One of the school's new policies was to "develop a whole school LGBT+ inclusive curriculum," the Daily Mail said.
But when the powers that be at the boarding school deemed Randall's sermon "harmful" to LGBTQ students, the school turned him in to Prevent, which the outlet said normally identifies individuals at risk of radicalization.
However, after police investigated the tip, they told Trent College that the 48-year-old chaplain posed "no counter terrorism risk, or risk of radicalization," the Daily Mail said, adding that Derbyshire Police confirmed the case "did not meet the threshold for a Prevent referral."
But it wasn't over
But the outlet added that Randall — a former Cambridge University chaplain and Oxford graduate — revealed that Trent College later informed him that his future sermons would be censored in advance and that his chapel services would be monitored "to ensure that ... requirements are met."
And then Randall was fired, the Daily Mail said.
While the outlet said he's suing for discrimination, harassment, victimization, and unfair dismissal, he shared that "my career and life are in tatters."
What did he say in his sermon?
Randall said his June 2019 sermon in the school chapel was prompted by concerns from students about an organization called Educate & Celebrate, which was invited to "embed gender, gender identity, and sexual orientation into the fabric" of the school, the Daily Mail said.
"You should no more be told you have to accept LGBT ideology than you should be told you must be in favor of Brexit or must be Muslim," Randall preached, according to the outlet.
However, he also encouraged students to "treat each other with respect," the Daily Mail said.
And then a few days later, Randall said he was called to a meeting and told the sermon was inflammatory, divisive, and "harmful to LGBT pupils," the outlet noted.
The Daily Mail said Randall only discovered the anti-terrorism referral because it was mentioned in documents given to him ahead of a disciplinary hearing: "I had visions of being investigated by MI5, of men knocking down the front door."
The school finally made Randall "redundant" on Dec. 31, 2020, according to Staffordshire Live, which cited the Christian Legal Centre, the organization supporting Randall.
Toby Young of the Free Speech Union told the outlet that Randall's sermon was "fantastic" and that it insists "no one has a monopoly on moral truth. For Bernard Randall to lose his job as a result of this sermon is scandalous. What's so depressing about his treatment is the message it sends to the pupils. The central theme of his sermon is that children shouldn't be afraid to think for themselves. But the message the school has sent is the opposite. Schools should be teaching children how to think, not what to think."
Andrea Williams — chief executive of the Christian Legal Centre — asked, "Who are the extremists in this story? The partisan agency who teach young children that they can be born in the wrong body, or the school chaplain moderately presenting what the Christian church has taught about marriage, sex, and gender for the past 2,000 years?" the Daily Mail said.
Randall's case is scheduled for a hearing in June, the outlet said, adding that Trent College declined to comment.
Here's commentary on the controversy from the Daily Wire's Michael Knowles:Americans have for months been exacerbated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's mixed messaging during the coronavirus pandemic. From messages on mask-wearing to outdoor transmission to how fully vaccinated people should conduct themselves, the agency has repeatedly undermined itself in the eyes of many Americans and tarnished its own reputation — likely permanently for vast swaths of the population.
One of those people disillusioned with the CDC's "expertise" is Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) — and she made her disappointment and distrust of the agency clear in remarks to CDC Director Rochelle Walensky during a Senate Health Committee hearing Tuesday.
What happened?
The CDC finally — after ongoing pressure from all sides — issued new face mask guidance late last month. Though the new guidelines were celebrated for finally offering some relief to fully vaccinated people, many critics — on the right and the left — criticized the new rules for not loosening restrictions even further. Beyond that, the members of the Biden administration have continued to undermine the new CDC guidelines — from the Health and Human Services secretary to Biden's COVID czar to President Joe Biden himself.
Late last week, the CDC finally acknowledged publicly that COVID-19 is airborne — a fact that other health experts have known for several months.
The CDC has been inconsistent in its support for reopening schools and recently suffered its own scandal when it was revealed that the American Federation of Teachers appeared to play a significant role in CDC guidelines for reopening.
There has also been debate over the agency's restrictions for outdoor summer camps that say outdoor campers should be masked.
And on Tuesday, the New York Times exposed a move by the CDC to exaggerate the risk of outdoor COVID spread in order to protect people. The Times revealed that Director Walensky's claim that "less than 10 percent" of transmissions occur outdoors was misleading at best. In fact, the Times said, the rate of outdoor transmission is less than 1% — and may be below 0.1%.
These recent CDC messaging snafus led Collins to issue a stark rebuke to Walensky for her agency's missteps.
"I used to have the utmost respect for the guidance from the CDC," Collins said. "I always considered the CDC to be the gold standard. I don't anymore."
The senator cited the CDC's "conflicting" and "confusing" guidance that has "undermined public confidence" and "contradicts the scientific guidance of many experts" on school openings, outdoor transmission risks, and summer camps.
"So, here we have unnecessary barriers to reopening schools, exaggerating the risks of outdoor transmission, and unworkable restrictions on summer camps. Why does this matter?" Collins asked. "It matters because it undermines public confidence in your recommendations, in the recommendations that do make sense, in the recommendations that Americans should be following."
Walensky stood behind her agency's widely criticized actions and rules, saying the "CDC will continue to follow the science" — without explaining which science that would be.
The director briefly addressed the report that the AFT played an outsized role in reopening guidance for schools, claiming that the guidelines that were updated with the union's requested language was actually based on CDC science and was initially left out based on an accidental oversight.
She attempted to explain away the Tuesday Times report that exposed the CDC's exaggerations on outdoor transmission, saying that the agency's messaging was based on a "published study" — a claim the Times report clearly debunked.
And she lamented the camp restrictions, saying she won't let her own 16-year-old go to camp, but she failed to note that kids are not the people at risk with COVID, and most of the adults who would be considered vulnerable have received vaccines.Ahead of a vote to oust Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) from House Republican leadership, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus sent a memo to every GOP office decrying her presumptive successor, Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), as a Democrat in Republican clothing.
Rep. Chip Roy (R-Texas) circulated a memo Tuesday asking the House Republican conference to reconsider elevating Stefanik to the role of conference chairwoman, a position responsible for messaging ahead of the 2022 midterm election. Citing her voting record, which was often contrary to the agenda of former President Donald Trump, Roy called on House Republicans to "choose someone who reflects our conservative values" to succeed Cheney.
"We must avoid putting in charge Republicans who campaign as Republicans but then vote for and advance the Democrats' agenda once sworn in," Roy wrote to his colleagues.
"Therefore, with all due respect to my friend, Elise Stefanik, let us contemplate the message Republican leadership is about to send by rushing to coronate a spokesperson whose voting record embodies much of what led to the 2018 ass-kicking we received by Democrats," he said.
On Monday, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) said that the secret ballot vote to oust Cheney from leadership will happen Wednesday. Cheney has fallen out of favor with McCarthy and the rest of the Republican conference for her outspoken criticism of Trump — in news conferences, media interviews, and op-eds — which they feel is a distraction from their efforts to craft a message to win back control of the House of Representatives in the next election.
Cheney was one of 10 House Republicans to vote in favor of impeaching President Trump after the Jan. 6 violence at the U.S. Capitol building. She holds Trump responsible for inciting the violence with his statements contesting the results of the 2020 presidential election and has called on other Republicans to reject the former president's claims.
Trump himself, McCarthy, and GOP Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) have each endorsed Stefanik, a vocal Trump supporter, to succeed Cheney. But some Republicans and conservative activists have voiced opposition to Stefanik, citing her liberal voting record.
"Elise Stefanik is NOT a good spokesperson for the House Republican Conference," said the Club for Growth, a conservative grassroots organization. "She is a liberal with a 35% CFGF lifetime rating, 4th worst in the House GOP. House Republicans should find a conservative to lead messaging and win back the House Majority."
Roy's memo to House Republicans highlighted several of Stefanik's votes that put her in opposition to conservatives, including a vote against Trump's 2017 tax cuts; a vote to override Trump's funding of the border wall; a vote for the Equality Act; and "many other concerning votes and positions."
"The forgotten men and women of this country simply want us to stand up for them. Please tell me how we are sending a message today that we are standing up for them with a leadership-tapped colleague with that record as our spokesperson?" Roy wrote.
He warned Republicans that straying from Trump's America First Agenda is what cost them the House in 2018 and what might prevent them from winning it back in 2022.
He also demanded that Republicans "be clear that the media narrative" about why Cheney is being forced from leadership "is false."
"This is about her general failure to lead the conference — recognizing that real concerns with expanded mail-in ballots, lack of identification requirements, ballot harvesting, and the numerous ways to undermine elections — on a path forward to restore election integrity. This is the kind of unified "election" message that Liz unfortunately did not develop that we should embrace now."Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott (D) has announced a new pilot program that will direct some 911 emergency calls to mental health professionals in lieu of notifying law enforcement officials.
What are the details?
According to a report from WJZ-TV, 911 dispatchers in the city receive about 36 emergency mental health calls a day.
Those calls will now go to dedicated mental health counselors trained in conflict resolution.
"Think about the sheer number of hours that our police officers are actually out dealing with something that they're not trained to do, versus being out there going after someone who's committed an armed carjacking," Scott reasoned.
Last week, The Baltimore Sun reported that the program — 911 Diversion Pilot — "aims to connect callers with the most appropriate resources and responses for their needs."
The outlet cited a 2015 study from the Treatment Advocacy Center that found "people with untreated mental illness were more likely to die during an altercation with police officers than those without mental illness."
During a Friday news conference, Scott said, "This pilot is not about defunding the police, but rather acknowledging that police department cannot tackle violent crime, our fire department cannot tackle public health and mental emergencies — and everything else."
When will the program start?
The new program, the station reported, is set to start in June and will reportedly not cost the city any further monies as the city is said to possess existing contracts with all nonprofit organizations providing the counselors' care and participation in the new program.
Baltimore resident Denise Mack says that the violence has to stop.
"[I]t's just getting worse," she told the station. "You've got to go to funerals, got to see your son or nephew lying there. It's bad. I just wish everyone would get themselves together."
Homicides in the embattled city, WJZ reported, have risen 15% year over year.Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra went on CNN Monday to attempt to explain why fully vaccinated people should continue to mask-up.
And he struggled to make the case to the Democrat-family cable outlet.
What happened?
Becerra is the most recent member of the Biden administration to come out and contradict the latest face mask guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Late last month, the new CDC guidelines said that fully vaccinated Americans do not need to wear masks outdoors, or even indoors in many cases. Fully vaccinated people, the CDC said, can gather outdoors without wearing a mask except in certain crowded settings and can also gather indoors without wearing a mask or staying six feet apart.
President Joe Biden told NBC's "Today" just a couple days after the CDC update that he would keep wearing a mask outdoors because "it's a patriotic duty." And last Friday he said to reporters who asked about his continued masking that being fully vaccinated and still wearing a mask indoors is "good policy."
The president's COVID czar, Jeff Zients, erroneously told CNN that Biden was following CDC guidance by wearing a mask, even after being fully vaccinated since January.
And senior Biden adviser Anita Dunn defended the president's continued mask-wearing by saying people should follow CDC guidelines.
On Monday, Sec. Becerra attempted to make the case to CNN's audience for fully vaccinated people to still wear face masks.
CNN host John Berman asked the secretary about Dr. Anthony Fauci's remarks Sunday that it might be time to relax indoor mask mandates, especially for people who have been vaccinated.
"Who are you protecting, if everyone's vaccinated, by wearing a mask?" Berman queried.
Becerra responded by claiming that the administration's guidance "focuses on safety" and is the "best advice possible."
What does that look like? In Becerra's mind, it means fully vaccinated people masking up because — well — they could still be carrying the virus and spread COVID-19.
What did Becerra say?
"We still want you to be as safe as possible, that's why the indoor policy should still be masking," the HHS chief said. "But clearly, if you've been vaccinated fully and you're with folks who are also vaccinated, John, the risk does diminish radically. But you could end up being a carrier and not know it and if somebody hasn't been vaccinated and doesn't wear a mask, guess what, there's still that potential of getting COVID."
Berman responded that he and his co-workers are inoculated and their safety is not being "impacted" by wearing a mask. He then indicated that perhaps it's a matter of personal responsibility and assumption of risk for each person.
"If someone else is not vaccinated, it might be THEIR safety that's being affected, so there's two issues here," Berman said. "Number one: Is that my concern anymore that someone who's chosen to be unvaccinated is making a bad choice? And question two is maybe there should be laws that allow them to be kept out of the building."
Becerra responded that he still wants to convince everyone to act in what he says is their own best interests and "be as safe as possible."
"You know, it's always difficult to get people on motorcycles to wear helmets — for their own safety. It was tough at times to get people to wear seatbelts — for their own safety," he said. "What we're simply saying is the best guidance from those who are the experts in health care is be as safe as possible by wearing a mask, even if you're vaccinated."
The CDC experts' guidance does not agree with Becerra's assertion.National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Dr. Anthony Fauci denied that the National Institutes of Health has ever funded "gain of function research" at the Wuhan Institute of Virology — the Chinese lab that became the focus of intense scrutiny at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic — during yet another heated back-and-forth with Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.).
Fauci appeared Tuesday before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions to testify on the ongoing pandemic response. When it was his turn to ask questions, Paul grilled Fauci on NIH funding for viral research in Wuhan, China, and the possibility that the novel coronavirus that caused the current global pandemic was a product of "gain of function" research that leaked from that lab.
"Dr. Fauci, do you still support funding of the NIH funding of the lab in Wuhan?" Paul asked.
"Sen. Paul, with all due respect, you are entirely, entirely and completely incorrect," Fauci retorted. "The NIH has not ever, and does not now, fund 'gain of function research' in the Wuhan Institute."
"Gain of function" research involves genetically enhancing viral pathogens in order to predict which may become especially dangerous to the human population. The research is controversial because of the risk that a virus found naturally occurring in animals that is modified to be able to infect humans could accidentally — or deliberately — be released and cause a pandemic.
Paul made numerous references to an article published by New York Magazine in January that described the development of gain of function research and how a U.S. virologist named Dr. Ralph Baric collaborated with Shi Zhengli of the Wuhan Institute of Virology to study bat and human coronaviruses beginning in 2015. The article noted there is no direct evidence that SARS-CoV-2 was artificially created and subsequently leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology lab, but also acknowledged there is a lack of direct evidence for the virus occurring naturally.
Between 2014 and 2019, a U.S. nonprofit group called the EcoHealth Alliance diverted $600,000 in National Institutes of Health subgrants to the Wuhan Institute to study bat coronaviruses. In March, Politico reported that the U.S. government was aware WIV was conducting gain-of-function research "on a much larger scale than was publicly disclosed."
Fauci insisted that claims the NIH grants were used to fund gain-of-function research were false. He defended the subgrants to the Wuhan Institute, which he says were used to study coronaviruses in bats.
"Let me explain to you why that was done, the SARS-CoV-1 originated in bats in China. It would have been irresponsible of us if we did not investigate the bat viruses and the serology to see who might have been infected," Fauci said.
"Or perhaps it would be irresponsible to send it to the Chinese government that we may not be able to trust with this knowledge and with this incredibly dangerous viruses," Paul interrupted.
Fauci then adamantly denied that he supported gain-of-function research in China.
Paul's next question dealt with the hypothesis that SARS-CoV-2 escaped from the Wuhan lab.
"Will you in front of this group categorically say that the COVID-19 virus could not have occurred by serial passage in a laboratory?" Paul asked.
"I do not have any accounting of what the Chinese may have done, and I'm fully in favor of any further investigation of what went on in China," Fauci said in response. "However, I will repeat again, the NIH and NIAID categorically has not funded gain-of-function research to be conducted in the Wuhan Institute of Virology."
After the hearing, Paul accused Fauci of dissembling during his questions.The Long Island, New York, woman who reportedly struck an NYPD police officer in a fatal hit-and-run accident has been charged with 13 counts, including aggravated manslaughter and aggravated criminally negligent homicide.
The woman, 32-year-old Jessica Beauvais, faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the charges.
What are the details?
According to a Monday report from the New York Post, Beauvais reportedly had a blood alcohol level of .15 — which is nearly twice the legal limit in New York — when she struck the officer with her sedan.
A purportedly drunken Beauvais — who was reportedly driving with a suspended license — was said to have struck NYPD Highway Officer Anastasios Tsakos on April 27 while she was driving her vehicle on the Long Island Expressway in Queens.
Beauvais reportedly struck Tsakos — who was on the scene of another fatal motor vehicle accident — so hard that he flew 40 feet in the air before landing. Beauvais reportedly fled the scene. Her vehicle at that point had a caved-in windshield and a traffic cone wedged under the front of its chassis.
She reportedly told investigators that she had been drinking vodka in the hours that led up to the hit-and-run accident.
Just before the accident, Beauvais — a podcaster and radio host — recorded a lengthy anti-police rant in which she blasted the justice system and its police officers.
While discussing the Derek Chauvin trial, Beauvais quoted hip-hop group N.W.A and said, "Like N.W.A. say about the police, if you're going to kill me, at least I get to take someone with me."
"I'm one of those people," she said at the time. "If I'm going to go, someone is coming."
“What happened to fighting?" she also said during the podcast. “I grew up on fighting. I like to fight. My hands and my feet and teeth. It does something for me — what does it do for you? F***ing people up never stopped being a thing. Shooting people is still wack. It means you can't fight. It means you're a cop."
She added, "F*** the police."
During her initial arraignment, Beauvais said, "I'm sorry. I'm sorry that I hit him and now he's dead."From day one of this pandemic, it was abundantly clear that outdoor transmission — aside from perhaps an infected individual screaming in someone's face — is essentially zero. Had the CDC properly conveyed this fact to the public, it could have preserved an amazing quality of life for so many people that would have included continuation of children's play and sports, seniors enjoying more friendship, fresh air, and vitamin D, and a happier, less depressed society. Yet, to this day, they are continuing to force children to wear masks even outdoors in the summer heat.
In what Rush Limbaugh used to call "a random act of journalism," New York Times reporter David Leonhardt published a very thorough takedown of the CDC's outdoor masking guidance. The takedown brings into question how we can trust anything else they tell us when they seem hell-bent on playing up the danger of the virus at all costs and in all situations, over-stating the efficacy of non-pharmaceutical intervention, and underplaying the concerns about side effects from mask-wearing and the vaccines.
Several weeks ago, CDC Director Rochelle Walensky stated at a White House press conference that there's "increasing data that suggests that most of transmission is happening indoors rather than outdoors." She gave a number of "less than 10 percent of documented transmission" occurring outdoors.
The problem with this statement is that the number is really much closer to zero, and this fact was known over a year ago. As Leonhardt points out, some epidemiologists he spoke to believe it may be below 0.1 percent, and "almost all" transmission "seems to have involved crowded places or close conversation."
"Saying that less than 10 percent of Covid transmission occurs outdoors is akin to saying that sharks attack fewer than 20,000 swimmers a year," writes Leonhardt. "(The actual worldwide number is around 150.) It's both true and deceiving."
This is not just a matter of semantics. As the article observes, based on this notion that there is still some very measurable transmission outdoors, the CDC is still recommending all unvaccinated people wear masks outdoors, including children in summer camp. They also continue to give people the impression that one can catch the virus naturally outdoors just casually passing someone, which is continuing to discourage those who are really fearful of the virus from even living normal lives outdoors.
Indeed, not a single known case of casual outdoor transmission has been documented in the entire world. A study of 7,324 cases in Wuhan found just one outdoor transmission in a case where someone had a sustained conversation with an individual who already had symptoms. A study in Ireland found the ratio to be 1 in 1,000.
Now extrapolate the statistical anomaly of outdoor transmission to children who are not exhibiting symptoms for a virus that doesn't even meaningfully affect them, and we are still making them wear masks in the summer heat without any evidence that masks work even indoors.
According to the New York Times, much of the reputed outdoor transmission in the academic research the CDC relied upon occurred at construction sites in Singapore that were likely indoors. And of course, nobody ever bothered to research whether those individuals were indeed wearing masks, as seems to be the case in most Asian countries, which would disprove the efficacy of masks anyway.
Rather than question the CDC's illogical premise on mask-wearing altogether, Leonhardt continues to assume masks work indoors as a law of gravity and suggests that the CDC should issue the following message: "Masks make a huge difference indoors and rarely matter outdoors."
The obvious question anyone should be asking is that if the CDC is exaggerating the need to wear masks outdoors, why are we to trust them about the efficacy of wearing them indoors? Both the CDC and the WHO have recently admitted that the six-foot rule is a complete hoax and that it's primarily aerosols, remaining suspended in the air indoors and traveling farther than six feet, that are transmitting the virus.
First, this is a further indictment of their unwillingness to categorically bless normal living outdoors, given how easy it is to transmit indoors. But more broadly, as I've explained in great detail, the aerosols that are small enough to suspend in air and travel great distances are, by definition, small enough to get through the gaps and pores of a face mask, especially ones that are not rated as high as N-95s and above. But we are somehow to believe the fake advertising of the CDC on masking as if it were brought down by Moses on the tablets.
Notice a pattern here? The misinformation always flows in the direction of creating more panic, fear, and social control, while also boosting Big Pharma, though not enough to interfere with the control, because if vaccines were that awesome, all masking should be over with. Even 14 months after amassing incontrovertible scientific data proving children are not at risk and outdoor transmission is statistically insignificant, they are still willing to advocate life-and-death policies that contradict this science. This is what we call political science, not life science.The Walt Disney Company has responded to growing controversy after recently leaked documents revealed Disney is pushing elements of critical race theory for employee training.
What is the background?
As TheBlaze reported, documents leaked to journalist Christopher F. Rufo show Disney recently introduced employees to a program called "Reimagine Tomorrow" that is allegedly centered on "diversity and inclusion."
However, the program asks employees to complete a "white privilege checklist," and tells employees to "pivot" from the "norm of white dominate culture" to something such as "collectivism."
The program reportedly contains training modules on "systemic racism," "white privilege," "white fragility," "white saviors," "microaggressions," and "anti-racism."
Disney also claims in the program that America has a "long history of systemic racism and transphobia," and says non-black employees should not "question or debate Black colleagues' lived experience."
What did Disney say?
In a statement, Disney claimed the leaked documents have been "deliberately distorted."
However, when Rufo reported on the existence of the documents, he did not simply relay what they say — he included the documents themselves.
Here is Disney's complete statement:
These internal documents are being deliberately distorted as reflective of company policy, when in fact their purpose was to allow diversity of thought and discussion on the incredibly complex and challenging issues of race and discrimination that we as a society and companies nationwide are facing.
The Disney brand has a long history of inclusivity, with stories that reflect acceptance and tolerance and celebrate people's differences, as we have consistently demonstrated in such popular films as Moana, Coco, Black Panther, Soul and Raya and the Last Dragon, and as a global entertainment company we are committed to continuing to tell stories that reflect the rich diversity of the human experience.
How did Rufo respond?
Responding on Twitter, Rufo said Disney is being dishonest.
"Disney has released a statement claiming that my reporting 'distorted' their antiracism program. This is false. I published direct quotations, contextual screenshots, and the original source documents in their entirety. Disney is distorting the truth — and I won't stand for it," Rufo said.
In fact, Rufo said Disney is being hypocritical, pointing out its weird relationship with China and the fact that Disney's executive leadership team is comprised of white men.
"Disney claims to value 'inclusivity,' but the company has: -Used slave and child labor in poor countries -Filmed 'Mulan' near Uighur concentration camps -Censored content for the CCP -Shrinked a black actor in Chinese promotional materials," Rufo said. "The Magic Kingdom is a house of lies."
"I challenge Disney's executive team to walk the walk: they should complete the 'white privilege' checklist they provided to employees and share the results publicly," he continued. "Otherwise, they're fake antiracists, using buzzwords to deflect attention from their moral transgressions."Actor and rapper Donald Glover — also known as by his rapper name Childish Gambino — appears to have hit out at cancel culture for what he suggests is stifling content creators.
Much of social media, however, ran with Glover's remarks, and their thoughts on what he meant has divided Twitter.
What are the details?
According to a Tuesday report from the New York Post, Glover said that fear of cancel culture is creating "boring" avenues of entertainment as many content creators feel they are restricted from experimentation out of fear of repercussion.
Early Tuesday morning, Glover took to Twitter where he wrote, "[S]aw people on here havin a discussion about how tired they were of reviewing boring stuff (tv & film)."
"We're getting boring stuff and not even experimental mistakes (?) because people are afraid of getting cancelled," he continued.
The 37-year-old entertainer concluded his thoughts, "So they feel like they can only experiment w/aesthetic (also because some of em know theyre not that good.)"
Image source: Twitter screenshot
Image source: Twitter screenshot
Image source: Twitter screenshot
What else?
Glover's comments seem to have been taken one of two ways: Some social media users believe that Glover is referring to cancel culture, while other social media users believe that Glover is saying that creators are concerned over their actual projects being canceled.
One user wrote, "This tweet immediately highlighted how fake woke so much of Twitter is. The man tweets about tv show cancellation because executives don't want to go outside the box and yall busted out your torches and pitchforks over cancel culture. Which is irrelevant to this tweet."
Another user added, "He's talking about movies/tv shows being cancelled but everyone's brains are so poisoned by twitter they think he's talking about cancel culture and getting mad."
"The internet has rotted people so much that they forgot the word cancelled literally just means to get your program taken off the air lmao," another user wrote.
On the flip side, one user who believed Glover was referring to cancel culture itself wrote, "The PC culture has really put a damper on creative work."
Another user chimed in, "[L]eave cancel culture for the racists, sexists, rapists, ect. It's gone from a good thing to something that has made people afraid of expression. Ain't right."
"Isn't the purpose of art to trigger a reaction in people?" another user asked. "Get creative because you're not getting canceled. I love your work, but when public opinion changes, being canceled isn't an excuse for making good art. Just look at history for that. Art perseveres."
Despite the flurry of discussion, Glover has yet to clarify his original comments at the time of this reporting.Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton blasted "mob rule" and Plano's police chief after an angry driver caught on video confronting Black Lives Matter militants for blocking traffic was the only person charged in Saturday's incident.
What are the details?
After Paxton caught wind of the viral showdown, he issued a statement Monday decrying "a group of radical-left armed agitators and a police chief unwilling to enforce the law."
The Texas AG said that after "a group of militant BLM protesters illegally shut down traffic underneath a major highway," an "Antifa-like character pulled what appears to be a gun and pointed it at the man" who had exited his car "to demand the mob clear the way."
Image source: YouTube screenshot
Paxton added that "rather than disperse the crowd or arrest the lawbreakers, the lone police officer told" the driver who confronted the group to "go away."
More from the AG's statement:
I instructed one of my top deputies to contact the Plano Police Chief to get more details. What he heard paints an even worse picture than the video alone depicts.
First the Chief told my deputy that while the weapon wasn't a pistol, it was, in fact, a "pepper ball gun." In a separate conversation, the Chief claimed it was a "taser." In a recent Facebook post, the department is now saying it was [an] "electronic control device." Whatever it was, the police declined to pursue the leftist who brandished the weapon, and no charges are being pressed against him.
Second, the Chief was anxious to excuse the rioters. "You have to understand the situation," urged the Chief. "We have to negotiate with these people. Do you expect us to mass arrest these protesters? You know that's not going to happen." Most law enforcement officers are ready and willing to uphold law and order. We need them to do that. But too many are held back by politically motivated leaders, crippled by the woke agitators, now aiders and abettors to liberal lunacy.
Here's a clip of the incident. Content warning: Language:
BLM Protestors block road in Plano, TX, get confronted by angry driver youtu.be
Paxton added in his statement that "only one person from this whole incident is being charged with a crime: The one man who told the protesters to go away. Why? For 'assault with contact' because he slapped a person's hand out of his face. No one else is being charged with anything. None of the law-breaking traffic-blockers, not the guy who pulled a weapon — no one!"
The AG ended his statement by saying he'll "never allow our beautiful Texas cities or neighborhoods to become Portland or Seattle or San Francisco because of the unchecked left. I call upon my friends and allies across the state to crack down on this lawlessness immediately. No excuses!"
What did police have to say?
Plano police told WFAA-TV that the object in the protester's hand is an electronic control device, which the station wrote is "commonly known as a Taser."
Police Chief Ed Drain added to WFAA that the device was "purchased without a permit or license, and the person who pointed the device did not commit a criminal offense by doing so."
In the video, the angry motorist appears to attempt to slap a phone out of the hand of one of the protesters. Police said in its statement that "a female reported that she was assaulted by a male who confronted the protestors. Due to the position of the crowd, the officer did not witness the assault. The officer de-escalated the situation by removing the male ... from the crowd ... After speaking with the victim and the suspect, and reviewing video footage of the incident, detectives filed an Assault-by-Contact charge with the Municipal Court against the male suspect," the station reported.
Plano police told WFAA the names of the victim and suspect are not being released over concerns for their safety, and that assault by contact is a class C misdemeanor.
In addition, police told the station that the protesters were asked to disperse after the confrontation and complied. Officers also told them that obstructing traffic is illegal, WFAA reported. Chief Drain added to the station that traffic was held up for for seven minutes.Northwestern University's student newspaper recently published an article that reportedly asserted that "white people walk awkwardly on sidewalks" because of "internalized racism," according to a Wednesday report from Campus Reform.
What are the details?
Opinion editor Kenny Allen wrote the Daily Northwestern article, "Are the sidewalks at Northwestern too white, too?" which asked if white people walked on sidewalks certain ways because of racism.
“When I first got to Northwestern, I wondered why walking around on campus could be so frustrating," he wrote. "Even when sidewalks were relatively empty, I would often have to walk way around people to pass without bumping into them."
"At first," he reasoned, "I chalked it up to the geographic diversity of the school; maybe the people that came to this school were used to different ways of moving through a public place."
After discussing the problem with his other black friends, Allen said, he concluded that "people at this predominantly white school would not move out of our way on the sidewalk."
Pointing to University of Richmond sociologist Bedelia Richards' test to determine whether college campuses are racist, Allen concluded that internalized racism is what prompts white people to walk on sidewalks the way that they do in places such as Northwestern University.
Allen explained that such conclusions were connected to Jim Crow segregation laws.
"That social order required black people to yield to white people whenever possible," he wrote. "Black people were made to show deference to white people anytime they interacted. One of the ways they were made to do so was by stepping off the sidewalk when a white person was walking past. The informal rules are passed down through generations just like any other kind of etiquette.
"White people came to expect the right of way in public spaces," he continued. "White people who were accustomed to moving through the world like that — intentionally or not — taught their kids to move through the world in the same way. And the racism that undergirded Jim Crow wasn't eliminated just because the laws were no longer overtly racist."
What's next?
Allen concluded that it is this very practice that ought to prompt people to become more serious about "uprooting ... white supremacy."
"Many White people walk around campus having unknowingly absorbed this particular facet of white supremacy, and the leaders of the institution do little to make us believe that white supremacy is something worth challenging in the first place," he insisted.
"Uprooting that white supremacy requires both recognizing its scale and disrupting it however it shows up," he added — even if it shows up on the sidewalk next to you.Republican Sen. Joni Ernst (Iowa) spoke out Monday against the effort to remove Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) from Republican Party House leadership, denouncing the campaign as "cancel culture."
Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, has faced intense scrutiny from her Republican colleagues for being a vocal critic of former President Donald Trump.
Cheney voted to impeach Trump in January following the deadly U.S. Capitol riot on Jan. 6. Cheney has also requested accountability for Republicans who supported Trump's attempts to undermine the election results.
What did Ernst say?
Not only did Ernst allege Cheney is a victim of "cancel culture" by the crowd that often decries cancel culture campaigns, but she said Cheney is being silenced.
"I feel it's OK to go ahead and express what you feel is right to express and, you know, cancel culture is cancel culture no matter how you look at it. Unfortunately, I think there are those that are trying to silence others in the party," Ernst told reporters, the Hill reported.
Ernst's comments are particularly significant because the Iowa senator is the only other woman in Republican Party congressional leadership. Ernst serves as vice chairwoman of the Republican Senate Conference.
Monday was not the first time Ernst defended Cheney.
Last week, Ernst said that while she disagreed with Cheney about Trump, every person — including Cheney — has the right to express their opinion without threat of reprisal.
"I appreciate President Trump and I appreciate all he has done for our country. And I think we made significant strides forward under the Trump administration, especially in our economy. But everybody has the right to express their opinion," Ernst said, Politico reported.
"I know Liz. I appreciate Liz so much. And she feels very strongly about her stance. And again, I know many Republicans that feel very strongly about their stance: pro-Trump, not for Trump, whatever it is. But at the end of the day we have work to get done," she added.
In fact, Ernst even suggested the internal fighting may hurt the GOP.
Speaking of House Republicans, Ernst said, "They need to evaluate: Is this helping or hurting our party?"
What is Cheney's fate?
House Republicans will vote Wednesday on whether to remove Cheney from her leadership position as chairwoman of the House Republican conference.
Although she survived an attempt to remove her earlier this year, Cheney is almost certainly to lose this time around, as House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and House Minority Whip Steve Scalise have endorsed her ouster.
Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) is the most likely candidate to replace Cheney.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention used a misleading statistic in its updated mask wearing guidance last month that exaggerated the risk of contracting COVID-19 while outdoors, according to the New York Times.
When CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky announced the updated guidance on mask-wearing, she told reporters that studies showed "less than 10 percent" of documented COVID-19 transmissions occurs outdoors. But several epidemiologists who spoke to the Times say the CDC's benchmark is misleading.
The number "seems to be a huge exaggeration," said Dr. Muge Cevik, a virologist at the University of St. Andrews.
Epidemiologists who spoke to the Times say the actual rate of outdoor transmission is less than 1% and may even be below 0.1%. If outdoor transmission does occur, it happens in crowded places or during close conversation, the Times' David Leonhardt reported.
By saying outdoor transmission is "less than 10 percent" of COVID-19 transmission, the CDC actually made the risk of catching COVID outdoors seem far greater than it actually is.
Leonhardt wrote:
This isn't just a gotcha math issue. It is an example of how the C.D.C. is struggling to communicate effectively, and leaving many people confused about what's truly risky. C.D.C. officials have placed such a high priority on caution that many Americans are bewildered by the agency's long list of recommendations. Zeynep Tufekci of the University of North Carolina, writing in The Atlantic, called those recommendations "simultaneously too timid and too complicated."
They continue to treat outdoor transmission as a major risk. The C.D.C. says that unvaccinated people should wear masks in most outdoor settings and vaccinated people should wear them at "large public venues"; summer camps should require children to wear masks virtually "at all times."
These recommendations would be more grounded in science if anywhere close to 10 percent of Covid transmission were occurring outdoors. But it is not. There is not a single documented Covid infection anywhere in the world from casual outdoor interactions, such as walking past someone on a street or eating at a nearby table.
He went on to explain how the academic research cited by the CDC to come up with the "10 percent" number seems suspect. Frequently cited studies linked most outdoor transmissions of COVID-19 to construction sites in Singapore.
"In one study, 95 of 10,926 worldwide instances of transmission are classified as outdoors; all 95 are from Singapore construction sites. In another study, four of 103 instances are classified as outdoors; again, all four are from Singapore construction sites," Leonhardt wrote.
Noting that it doesn't make sense for all cases of outdoor transmission to be linked to construction sites, Leonhardt said Times investigative reporter Shashank Bengali learned that the government agency that collects data on COVID-19 in Singapore did not categorize construction-site cases as outdoor transmission.
In fact, there is reason to think many of the infections at those sites occurred indoors, with workers congregating in enclosed spaces for meetings, eating lunch together, or working in buildings that have completed concrete shells but need their interiors constructed.
Additionally, academic researchers collecting data on COVID-19 from government databases made a judgment call to define outdoor spaces "very broadly."
"We had to settle on one classification for building sites, and ultimately decided on a conservative outdoor definition," said French researcher Quentin Leclerc, who authored one of the papers analyzing Singapore. Another paper defined "workplace, health care, education, social events, travel, catering, leisure and shopping" settings as outdoors, only counting "mass accommodation and residential facilities" as indoor settings.
The result was many cases of indoor transmission were reported as outdoor transmission by media outlets citing the CDC, which cited this research.
In a statement to the New York Times, a CDC spokesperson described the "less than 10 percent" number as a "conservative estimate" and explained that the CDC "errs on the side of protection when it comes to recommending steps to protect public health."
The attitude of the CDC echoes what White House top medical adviser Dr. Anthony Fauci told CNN about the CDC back in March: "They're being careful, understandably. They want to get science, they want to get data, and then when you don't have the data and you don't have the actual evidence, then you've got to make a judgment call."A prestigious California private school is facing criticism after its curriculum reportedly taught first-grade children that gender is a choice.
What are the details?
According to KUSI-TV, teachers at posh La Jolla County Day School in La Jolla, California, are educating students on gender, stating that the concept is a mere choice.
The station reported that many concerned parents reached out to the network to describe what they say is the school pushing a "leftist ideology."
One parent told the station that teachers assigned the children's book titled, "It Feels Good to Be Yourself."
The book says, "Some people are boys. Some people are girls. Some people are both, neither, or somewhere in between," according to KUSI.
In remarks, Payton Hobbs — head of the institution's lower school — confirmed that the book was shared with students.
"[T]he focus of the lesson [redacted] mentioned is connected to concept of Dignity and its meaning here at LJCDS," Hobbs said in a statement. "During the lesson, they discuss 'acceptance of identity' as an aspect of our Dignity model. Students are also provided time to talk about what this means to them."
"[A]fter this initial discussion, they read 'It Feels Good to Be Yourself' by Theresa Thorn which focuses on gender identity," the statement continued. "Afterwards, the team takes questions from the students, and talk a bit about pronouns."
The station reports that the school tuition is nearly $30,000 per year for students K-4.
Anything else?
The school made headlines in November after one official reportedly told a student to remove their "offensive" Make America Great Again hat.
At the time, KUSI reported:
KUSI News has obtained an email sent to all staff from La Jolla County Day's Head of School, Gary Krahn.
The controversy that emerged from Krahn's email to LJCD staff is in regards to one of their students showing up to school wearing a "Make America Great Again" hat.
Krahn's email reads, "We also had a student wear a MAGA Hat today. I have talked with that student who now understands why that hat is offensive to our community. He will not wear it again. In addition his mom said that she is embarrassed by his actions. She will fulfill her role as a parent. We will continue to grow as a community that sees and values the dignity of all people."
(H/T: The College Fix)Tim Tebow's likely return to the NFL has ignited a new controversy after angry fans voiced frustration that Tebow is receiving another shot in the big leagues while Colin Kaepernick remains sidelined.
What are the details?
Multiple reports indicated that Tebow is expected to sign a one-year contract with the Jacksonville Jaguars in the coming days. Tebow, a former NFL quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner, will play the tight end position.
Tebow, 33, also will reunite with coach Urban Meyer. The pair won two college football national championships while at Florida in 2006 and 2008.
"The #Jaguars are planning to sign QB-turned-TE Tim Tebow to a 1-year deal, per me and @TomPelissero, a deal that could be official in the next week or so. Nothing done yet. But he'll have a chance to make the team to reunite with his mentor and college head coach Urban Meyer," NFL reporter Ian Rapoport tweeted.
"Tebow hasn't played football since the 2015 NFL preseason and has spent the past six years working as a broadcaster on the SEC Network and working on his professional baseball career," ESPN reported.
What was the reaction?
Fans already angry that Kaepernick has gone many seasons unsigned were predictably angry that Tebow will earn yet another NFL contract despite not having played in the league since 2012.
Among the reactions included claims that Tebow was able to secure a contract because he is white and Kaepernick cannot because he is black.
"Tebow - Hasn't played in the NFL since 2012. Gets another shot. Kaepernick - Hasn't played since 2016. Gets nothing. What's the difference? Can't seem to put my finger on it..." one person said, tweeting side-by-side pictures of Tebow and Kaepernick.
"Tim Tebow finding a team and Colin Kaepernick can't. White privilege NFL style. Tebow can't throw, never could, never played TE, and hasn't played in ..what ...8 years? Explain it to me like I'm 5," another person claimed.
"There's no way you can tell me that Tim Tebow deserves to be on a team as an unproven tight end who hasn't played in 9 years more than Colin Kaepernick. There's just no way that's gonna make sense," another person reacted.
"::laughs in Colin Kaepernick::," Jemele Hill said.
"Tim Tebow hasn't played football in 6 years and will be 34 heading into training camp and he just signed with the Jags. From here on out, I don't ever want to hear another word about how Colin Kaepernick isn't good enough for another shot in the NFL," one person said.
"Interesting how the same people that are praising Tim Tebow for his values outside of football, see Colin Kaepernick's values as a distraction," another person reacted.
"But no one will sign Colin Kaepernick because hE hASn'T pLayEd in ForEvER and He woUlD bE a DiSTracTioN," another person mocked.
Tebow, of course, is not guaranteed a starting spot, nor is he guaranteed a spot on the Jaguar's 53-man regular season roster. Tebow will have to earn his spot on the team during training camp and preseason games.It's clear that the mask obsession will continue indefinitely, especially in the blue states. When it comes to lockdowns, it might appear that even all the blue states have moved on from them at this point. However, it's important for anyone who cares about liberty and true public health to make sure a provision is codified into law to ban stay-at-home orders in the future. Failure to do so will ensure that lockdowns become the new baseline policy response to any future pandemic flu or even erroneous prediction by the "experts" of an impending pandemic.
If you listen carefully to every governor announcing the end of restrictions (except masks, of course) they are not doing so out of admission that such policies don't work and are actually harmful. It's just that the current case level no longer justifies the continuation of those policies and saddling a Democrat administration with the political liability of the economic consequences headed into the midterm elections. But the minute there is a warning from Fauci and his ilk of another pandemic, perhaps even the return of the seasonal flu, they will immediately push lockdowns.
The numbers have been examined upside-down and inside-out, and nobody can find a single correlation between lockdowns and positive results relative to any control group that did not implement those policies. Dozens of studies have shown zero correlation based on geographical and seasonal comparison. The only correlation between lockdowns and unique outcomes is more unemployment:
A new working paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research demonstrates why that is the case.
"Micro evidence contradicts the public-health ideal in which households would be places of solitary confinement and zero transmission," concluded University of Chicago economist Casey B. Mulligan after analyzing the progression of primary and secondary attack rates by profession and comparing them to household rates. "Instead, the evidence suggests that 'households show the highest transmission rates' and that 'households are high-risk settings for the transmission of [COVID-19].'"
We always knew that household transmission was the key ingredient to the pandemic early on. Last year, data from the Massachusetts Department of Public Health showed 83% of cases resulted from household exposure. At the same time, none of the venues from a list of 21 categories – including K-12 schools, restaurants and food courts, and retail and services – ever represented more than 2% of the share of cases.
Thus, we shut down our economies and left people at home for longer periods of time with less ventilation and closer quarters than they would have otherwise spent their time.
What's worse is that when all the public statements from Fauci Inc., state advertisements, and highway signs suggested people should "stay home, save lives," many fearful citizens took that literally. I have neighbors who literally never left their homes and stayed home in close quarters, living with depression and anxiety. Not only did that make it more likely that they would spread the virus to their households if they caught it during one of the times they inevitably had to be around other people, but it depleted their health in a way that made them most vulnerable to this virus. All the evidence shows that exercise, low BMI, and exposure to sun and vitamin D are among the best ways to boost one's immune system against serious illness from COVID-19. The lockdown mentality and policies actually ensured that people would suffer from all three of these vulnerabilities like pouring lighter fluid on a fire.
Weight gain
The mix of panic-inducing anxiety and reduced human activity caused Americans to gain weight … big-time. According to a survey conducted by the American Psychological Association, 61% experienced undesired weight gains during the COVID panic of the past year, with the average weight gain being a whopping 29 pounds. Millennials reported gaining an average of 41 pounds, a trend that will create a long-term time-bomb for heart disease, diabetes, and an endless litany of other ailments.
It turns out, as we've known all along, that obesity is the 800-pound gorilla in the room for almost anyone under the age of 65 who gets a severe case of COVID-19. A CDC study from March found "A J-shaped (nonlinear) relationship was observed between continuous BMI and risk" of three outcomes: ICU admissions, ventilation, and death. Overall, 78% of the people in the study sample who were hospitalized with COVID-19 were overweight or obese. Thus, we took a younger population that was largely unaffected by this virus and made a great many more of them vulnerable through excess weight gain.
Loss of exercise
Not only is exercise critical to staving off obesity, it also puts people at inherently lower risk of serious illness from COVID-19. A recent study of over 48,000 people diagnosed with the virus last year found that lack of exercise makes the patient 1.73 times more likely to die from COVID with those "constantly inactive" being 2.49 times more likely to die.
"Even after we included variables such as obesity and smoking in the analysis, we still saw inactivity was strongly associated with much higher odds of hospitalization, ICU admission, and death compared with moderate physical activity or any activity at all," said one of the co-authors of the study, which was published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine. They found that "other than being over age 60 or having a history of organ transplant, being consistently inactive conferred the highest risk for death from COVID-19."
So, what did the government and media do? Encourage everyone to stay home! They even closed the gyms and arrested gym owners. Then the gyms that were opened had mask mandates, and in many places, they mandated masks outdoors. What was the net effect? Further dissuading people from exercising, thereby making them more vulnerable to COVID.
Another American study published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine found that masking led to less exercise. "Cloth face masks led to a 14% reduction in exercise time and 29% decrease in VO 2 max, attributed to perceived discomfort associated with mask-wearing," concluded the authors of the randomized controlled trial. "Compared with no mask, participants reported feeling increasingly short of breath and claustrophobic at higher exercise intensities while wearing a cloth face mask."
Lack of sunshine
It's already become clear from dozens of studies that one's vitamin D levels are nearly perfectly correlated with outcomes of COVID-illness. Yet so many people took the dictate to stay home literally and never left their houses even to get sunshine. Most Americans are already vitamin D deficient, and government never warned people doing this to take daily high-dose supplements. In fact, they never apprised the public that vitamin D should have been the mask and toilet paper of last spring. The result is that we had people dying a year later after they had months to bump up their vitamin D levels and instead saw them plummet as they avoided the sun's vitamin D as if it were the plague itself. Wearing a mask over the few parts of one's body that are exposed to direct sunlight certainly didn't help either.
Imagine if our government and media had made exercise, weight loss, and vitamin D the crazed obsession that was instead directed to masking and lockdowns, which worked against all three COVID-mitigating strategies. Imagine how many fewer people would have died from COVID and other ailments.
Taken together, I don't think the government could possibly have found a better way to maximize deaths from both COVID and the COVID response than their approach of panic, fear, lockdowns, and masking.
How prophetic were the words of D.A. Henderson, the former dean of Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, who is widely credited with helping to eradicate smallpox, when he wrote in 2016 that lockdowns would produce so many negative effects that "this mitigation measure should be eliminated from serious consideration." He advised, "Experience has shown that communities faced with epidemics or other adverse events respond best and with the least anxiety when the normal social functioning of the community is least disrupted." If only we had listened.Delmar Police Department Cpl. Keith Heacook's cousin tore into the media on Monday during Heacook's funeral.
What's a brief history here?
The fallen officer — a 22-year veteran of the department who was weeks away from retirement — was laid to rest on Monday after Randon T. Wilkerson reportedly beat him to death during a late April domestic call in which Heacook was the only officer to respond.
Heacook was rushed to Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore, Maryland, where he was placed on life support. True to the officer's prior wishes, he was kept on life support for organ donation.
Grave understaffing has plagued the Delmar, Delaware, police department for years.
The town of Delmar straddles the Delaware-Maryland state line.
What are the details?
During the Monday funeral, Heacook's cousin Larry Schwartz — a retired law enforcement officer — took to the church's platform to memorialize his fallen family member.
"On April 24, Keith was getting ready for his midnight shift," Schwartz said. "Your thoughts are not, 'What's going to happen to me today?' It's, 'Does the kid have a game? Do I gotta go to the bank? Am I getting enough sleep for my side job?'"
Detailing the call that took the well-loved officer's life, Schwartz continued, "In that home, he met an attacker, an unarmed man. Keith fought hard for his life. He had so much to live for. Was he thinking of his wife Susan? His son Matthew? His mother Anita?"
"Giving everything he had to make sure he could get back to his family, but that didn't happen because in the real world, criminals don't always comply and unarmed criminals can kill you," he added. "This caused a nightmare these first responders will have for the rest of their lives, but here we are today paying tribute for our hero."
Pointing to how the media often covers police officers' deaths when compared to suspects' deaths, Schwartz added, "If Cpl. Heacook had to take the [bad] actor's life, what would have happened to his life? It would've been hell. The media would've been here in full force ... 'Unarmed this, unarmed that' every night without fail."
"Keith would have been placed on administrative leave while the investigation was conducted," he continued. "That investigation would have taken weeks, if not months, to complete. During that time, Keith's life would have been put under a microscope, as it's easy for folks who have no idea about police work. His family would be shunned. Even when Keith was cleared, that does not generate enough news."
Speaking directly to Delmar leaders, Schwartz demanded, "Are you going to make changes so this doesn't happen again, or are you going to let it roll the dice? Because I can assure, this can happen again."
Calling out Delmar Police Chief Ivan Barkley, Schwartz said, "Chief Barkley, you're the leader, this is the time for your voice to be heard. I heard your newscast when you said you needed more manpower. Chief, stand up and fight for your officers. Don't be silenced, they deserve it."
"To the federal and state politicians — what are you saying to the men of law enforcement when you shout, 'Defund the police' and 'Strip them of qualified immunity,' yet you keep qualified immunity for yourselves," he added. "Stop listening to the loudest voices. Listen to the voices that law enforcement protect. ... FYI you know who hates bad officers the most? The good cops out there doing the job every day of the week."
"Let his name be a beginning, not an end," Schwartz concluded. "Good change can come from this. Let it happen."
Cpl. Keith A. Heacook Funeral Service youtu.be
Leaders weigh in
Delmar Police Department Cpl. Kevin McCahill said that Heacook was an ideal police officer with the "true heart of a servant."
"He fought the good fight with dignity and grace," McCahill said.
McCahill also said that the fallen officer was a "gentle giant, strong as an ox, a giant teddy bear, and a happy-go-lucky fellow" who was "always smiling" and "would do anything for anyone."
"Keith helped anyone who needed help," he added. "That was Keith's way — he never wanted credit."
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R), also in attendance at Monday's service, said that his family, friends, and co-workers should focus on the legacy Heacook left behind in the wake of his death.
“We pray that you find solace knowing that his sacrifice will not ever be forgotten and that he's a true hero," Hogan said. "Keith's legacy will forever live on through the countless lives that he touched throughout his incredible life."
"There was nothing he wouldn't do for the residents of his community," Hogan continued. "Keith spent more than two decades serving and protecting others, and he brought honor to his badge each and every day. He acted immediately without regard for his own safety. The heinous crime that followed which resulted in unspeakable tragedy is a reminder of the risks that our men and women in blue face every single day. And it's on the worst of days that we ask the very best of them."
The Maryland Republican added, "Cpl. Keith Heacook will have the eternal gratitude of two states that will forever be in his debt."
Delaware Gov. John Carney (D), who was also at Heacook's funeral, said, "Thank you for sharing your husband, your brother, son, your father with us, and for making him the kind of man willing to put his uniform on every single day to protect his neighbors and be a peacemaker for this little town too big for one state."
Carney continued, "To Cpl. Heacook's family and the Delmar Police Department, we know you're feeling the collective grief of this whole community right now on both sides of the line. I hope you also feel the collective support, and the pride, and appreciation that we all feel when we think of you and when we think of your fallen brother. Put simply, you represent the best in all of us, and your courage and dedication to service lifts us up today during this very difficult time."
"He wasn't just doing his job, he was trying to help his neighbors. He was running toward the danger to protect his neighbors from that danger; he went to hat residence to be a peacemaker," Carney said. "I find that my only consolation is knowing the incredible good in peacemakers like Cpl. Heacook and other law enforcement officers, who are willing to risk their lives to keep the rest of us safe, and in the end, that that good will prevail."
'It comes from the heart'
According to WRDE-TV, the service featured several voicemails from Heacook to his family members.
One such message featured a cheerful Heacook leaving a message that said, "Hi honey! Enjoy your day at work. Have fun, work hard, earn that dollar, so you can take me out somewhere, 'bye!"
In another recording, Heacook could be heard saying, "I'm sorry you missed my call too because I was bringing sexy back, 'bye."
"Love you!" a third message relayed. "Mean it! It comes from the heart!"Investigators have expanded their search for a missing Washington, D.C., 2-month-old to garbage trucks and a landfill outside Richmond, Virginia, according to a report.
Newborn Kyon Jones was reported missing several days ago, and his mother is the "only person of interest" in the case, according to D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D).
What are the details?
Little Kyon was reported missing on May 5, and he was last seen in the 1500 block of Benning Road, NE, according to D.C.'s Metropolitan Police Department.
A source told WUSA-TV that officials believe there was foul play in the disappearance of the infant, and the newborn's mother is believed to be involved. Kyon was not reported missing until three days after he was last seen.
When questioned about the case during a news conference Monday, Bowser said that Kyon's mother "is the only person of interest" in the case.
Sources told the outlet that since Saturday, the search has been expanded to looking for little Kyon's body in garbage disposal trucks and receptacles. The Charles City County Sheriff's Department confirmed to WUSA that it was also assisting in the search, combing through a landfill 45 minutes east of Richmond.
Dustin Sternbeck, a spokesman for D.C. police, told The Washington Post on Monday, "We are committed to finding this child."
Sternback added that "anytime a 2-month old is missing, his whereabouts unknown, it is of great concern."
The newspaper reported that attempts to reach Kyon's mother and other relatives "were not successful."
Kyon is black with brown hair and brown eyes. Authorities do not have a description of the clothing he might be wearing.
Anyone with information on the baby is asked to call the police Youth and Family Services Division at 202-576-6768.The twin brother of a Chicago Bears running back was found dead by electrocution and authorities said that he was fleeing from the scene of a car accident before his death.
Tarik Cohen, 25, of the Chicago Bears had tweeted asking for the public's help in finding his missing brother, Tyrell Cohen, on Saturday.
"Could be on foot in the [woods] around 540 and six forks," Tarik said in the tweet he later deleted. "Possibly injured!"
A day later his brother's body was discovered by a worker at an electrical substation in Raleigh, North Carolina.
Law enforcement officials said that it appeared that he was trying to climb electrical equipment when he was electrocuted. He had run away from the one-car accident around 2 a.m. Saturday and into the substation.
The Chicago Bears issued a statement about the incident Monday.
"We are heartbroken to learn of the death of Tarik Cohen's twin brother, Tyrell," the statement read. "Our immediate thoughts and prayers go out to Tarik, his mother, Tilwanda, and the rest of their family and loved ones. On behalf of the entire Bears family, we extend our most heartfelt sympathies to all who mourn his loss."
On Monday, Tarik Cohen posted a statement via his Twitter account to fans about the death of his brother.
"While we appreciate the condolences thoughts and prayers, we ask that you respect our privacy during this time. Let us grieve. Please and thanks. Long live Me," he tweeted.
"I lost my brother , my twin, myself . What a great man he was . I'm glad i got to express just how much i love him while he was here," he added in a second tweet. "God truly calls home the best and most worthy. I'll just miss him forever."
Tyrell Cohen leaves behind a longtime girlfriend and two daughters, 3 and 7 years old.
Here's more about the tragic death:A murder suspect out on bond has been apprehended after going on the run with his pet Bengal tiger who was found running loose Sunday in a Houston neighborhood.
What are the details?
Several videos began circulating online from witnesses in a West Houston neighborhood, showing what one onlooker observed was an adult "freakin' Bengal tiger" crouched in a yard, wearing a collar.
Multiple videos show a man wearing a black shirt — later reported to be an off-duty sheriff's deputy — holding a gun on the beast, poised to shoot, but he does not. In one, he tells the purported owner of the predator, "F*** you and your f***ing tiger. Get the f*** back inside."
But later video shows the presumed owner walking the tiger back to a residence as the deputy (with his gun lowered) yells repeatedly, "GET THE TIGER BACK INSIDE!"
In clips obtained by ABC News, a child can be heard asking, "There's a tiger in the neighborhood? Like, why would he even be here?"
Fox News reported that once deputies arrived, the owner of the tiger loaded the big cat into a white Jeep Cherokee and fled. Officers took chase, but the Jeep got away.
According to Buzzfeed News, Houston police later identified the tiger owner as Victor Hugo Cuevas, 26, who was out on bond after facing a murder charge from an unrelated incident in November.
The outlet noted that "fleeing from police and being in possession of the tiger could violate his bond terms." Tigers are not allowed within the city limits of Houston. Authorities are also seeking two monkeys Cuevas is believed to own.
"My main concern right now is focusing on finding him and finding the tiger because what I don't want him to do is harm that tiger. We have plenty of places we can take that tiger and keep it safe and give it a home for the rest of its life," Houston Police Commander Ron Borza said during a news conference Monday.
"If that tiger was to get out and start doing some damage yesterday, I'm sure one of these citizens would have shot the tiger," Borza added. "We have plenty of neighbors out here with guns and we don't want to see that. It's not the animal's fault. It's the breeder's fault. It's unacceptable."
The landlord of the property where the tiger and monkeys are believed to have been kept reportedly told KHOU-TV that the tenants initially told him they did not own any pets, and he has begun the eviction process.
ABC News reported late Monday that Cuevas "is now in custody, according to Houston police, but the 'whereabouts of the tiger are not yet known.'" Police said Cuevas was charged Monday afternoon with felony evading police.Disney included Gina Carano in their push for Emmy consideration despite their controversial firing of the conservative actress and many liberals online were outraged.
Carano was unceremoniously fired in February from the very popular show, "The Mandalorian," on Disney Plus after a campaign from many on the left over her social media posts. Her critics pounced after Carano suggested in an Instagram post that conservatives were being censored in a similar fashion to the Jews in Nazi Germany.
A poster from Disney shows Carano listed under the best supporting actress category in their campaign for the show to be considered for the Emmys.
Some on the left took to Twitter to express their outrage and disbelief that Disney would include Carano.
"Giving Gina Carano an award for best actress of any kind is like giving a nobel peace prize to Adolf Hitler. It's absolutely ridiculous lol," responded one critic on Twitter.
"Even if @ginacarano wasn't a racist and hypocritical bigot, her performance wasn't nearly Emmy-worthy," said another.
"Putting all of Gina Carano's politics aside, her character has like 15 lines of dialogue across two seasons. An Emmy for WHAT??" tweeted writer Ryan Broderick.
"Um.... we got more acting emotion from the Mandalorian and he was in a helmet 90% of the time. He's also not a racist a** hole," replied another critic.
"And the Emmy for worst supporting actress goes to... Gina Carano!" joked another social media user.
After being fired from Disney, Carano announced that she had made a deal to develop and produce her own movie.
"I am sending out a direct message of hope to everyone living in fear of cancellation by the totalitarian mob," she said. "I have only just begun using my voice which is now freer than ever before, and I hope it inspires others to do the same. They can't cancel us if we don't let them."
Here's more about the Gina Carano controversy:The Guardian drew intense condemnation on Monday for asking people on social media to share their "lowest point" during COVID-19 lockdowns after using the example that actress Gwyneth Paltrow "broke down and ate bread."
What are the details?
The outlet out of the UK published a headline that read, "Gwyneth Paltrow broke down and ate bread during quarantine. What was your lowest point?"
After sharing the story on Twitter, the Guardian was absolutely lambasted — and many could not hold back their profanity.
One individual replied, "I became homeless but sorry about the millionaire eating bread I guess."
"I would rather read all day long about a junky horse than suffer through some BS story about how the cooch candle queen hit rock bottom during a pandemic and ate a f***ing bagel," one person wrote.
Another responded, "Sending [prayer] and lighting a [flame]. Poor little dear I struggled to keep my business going so my employees didn't lose their jobs I spent months alone during first lockdown. My home was left partly built - I got off lightly compared to some But thank f*** I didn't have to eat bread."
Someone else replied, "Bunch of people I loved died. Lost my full time job I loved of 25 years and its associated health benefits too. But, damn, can't say I ever went as low as Gwinny eating bread, so count my blessings, huh?"
Yet another answered that their low point was, "My parents dying 18 days apart, followed by a friend since the 80s dying after a fiery car crash, shortly followed by the death by ALS of 'the one who got away', followed by 3 months alone with 2 cats. But I didn't hit up the boulangerie, so there's that."
While the reactions were overwhelmingly critical, one person pleaded, "Read the article before you blast The Guardian for posting it. That's all I ask."
What else?
The short article mocks Paltrow by calling her admission "the latest celebrity attempt to prove they had it just as hard as normal people in the pandemic," but then the author's example of her own "low point" was yelling "I'M THE ALPHA" at her puppy.
The Guardian added an editor's note at the end of the piece saying that the headline had been updated to "better reflect the understanding of the story."
The new headline reads: "Gwyneth Paltrow broke down and ate bread during quarantine. How did you surprise yourself?"Iconic actor and comedian Jon Lovitz chastised cast members on NBC's "Saturday Night Live" for grousing over the invitation to Tesla CEO Elon Musk to host the show.
Lovitz, who is a former "Saturday Night Live" member, offered muted criticism but followed it up by contrasting the attitude of modern actors with that of his generation.
"For everyone @nbcsnl who isn't sure about the host... Don't forget where you were before you got the show. We are all extraordinarily lucky to have been on it," Lovitz said.
"Be grateful and enjoy your time on SNL," he continued. "Because nothing lasts forever."
Cast members and writers of the longtime sketch comedy show bristled when the Tesla CEO was announced as a guest host. Others criticized them for being triggered and outraged against Musk without any clear or consistent reasoning on why he's so controversial.
Lovitz continued his criticism after some on Twitter disagreed with him.
"I didn't stay. I didn't leave. I did my job that I was hired to do. I was paid to be on the show. When you get hired for a job, you show up and do it," said Lovitz.
"This concept apparently is foreign to a lot of people these days. That's what owners of businesses tell me," he added.
SNL cast member Pete Davidson voiced confusion at the reaction from some of his colleagues.
"I don't know why people are freaking out," Davidson said Wednesday. "They're like, 'Oh, I can't believe that Elon Musk is hosting!' And I'm like, 'The guy that makes the earth better kinda and makes cool things and sends people to Mars?'"
Lovitz was a member on SNL from 1985 to 1990 and later starred in various movies as well as his own short-lived animated show, "The Critic."
The cast members who voiced opposition to Musk were reportedly given a "safe space" to avoid participating on Saturday's show. Musk noted in his monologue that he made history on the show for being the first host with Asperger's syndrome.
"Or at least the first to admit it," he added.
Here's Elon Musk's opening monologue on SNL:Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip fired rockets at Israel on Monday following violent clashes between Palestinian protesters and police in Jerusalem.
The Israeli military retaliated, issuing airstrikes on Gaza military sites. Reports say several Palestinians are dead in Gaza following the strikes.
What are the details?
The Associated Press reported that Hamas fired "dozens" of rockets into Israel, "including a barrage that set off air raid sirens as far away as Jerusalem."
StopAntisemitism.org shared video on Twitter purportedly from Israel, writing, "Shocking footage out of Israel - children and their mothers scramble for shelter as rocket sirens go off. In the last hour alone, more than a dozen rockets have been fired from Gaza, including at Jerusalem."
Further footage posted online showed Israel's Iron Dome intercepting the rockets fired upon their country by Hamas from the Gaza Strip.
In reaction to the news, Rep. Kathy Manning (D-N.C.) issued a statement condemning Hamas, writing, "Hamas has fired more than 50 rockets into Israel, including six rockets aimed at Jerusalem. These acts of terrorism fan the flames of hate, threaten Israeli and Palestinian civilians, and are a violation of international law. We condemn these deadly attacks, and are grateful that the Iron Dome missile defense program has prevented mass casualties."
Another Democrat, Rep. Ilhan Omar (Minn.) reacted by blaming Israel for defending itself, tweeting, "Israeli air strikes killing civilians in Gaza is an act of terrorism. Palestinians deserve protection. Unlike Israel, missile defense programs, such as Iron Dome, don't exist to protect Palestinian civilians. It's unconscionable to not condemn these attacks on the week of Eid."
According to the AP, "the rocket fire drew heavy Israeli retaliation in the Gaza Strip," and "health officials said at least 20 people, including nine children, were killed in fighting, making it one of the bloodiest days of battle between the bitter enemies in several years."
What prompted Monday's violence?
According to CBS News, "confrontations between Israeli security forces and [Palestinian] protesters have been escalating for weeks," and the "clashes started at the beginning of Ramadan, almost a month ago."
But things came to head on Monday, after Hamas issued an ultimatum demanding Israeli security forces abandon the al Aqsa mosque area in Jerusalem or face rocket fire.
Reuters referred to al Aqsa as "another flashpoint in the holy city," and reported:
As Israel celebrated "Jerusalem Day" earlier on Monday, marking its capture of eastern sections of the holy city in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, violence erupted at the mosque, Islam's third most sacred site.
The Palestinian Red Crescent Society said more than 300 Palestinians were injured in clashes with police who fired rubber bullets, stun grenades and tear gas in the compound, which is also revered by Jews at the site of biblical temples.
The skirmishes, in which police said 21 officers were also hurt, at al Aqsa had died down by the 6 p.m. (1500 GMT) deadline Hamas had set.The group that organizes the annual Golden Globes awards was literally canceled by NBC over a campaign demanding more diversity among its voting members.
Critics claim that the Hollywood Foreign Press Association has no black voting members and cite other accusations of racial and sexual discrimination against the organization.
NBC said in a statement Monday that the awards ceremony would not be aired in 2022 if the HFPA refused to take steps to address the controversy.
"We continue to believe that the HFPA is committed to meaningful reform. However, change of this magnitude takes time and work, and we feel strongly that the HFPA needs time to do it right," said a NBC spokesperson.
"As such, NBC will not air the 2022 Golden Globes," the statement read. "Assuming the organization executes on its plan, we are hopeful we will be in a position to air the show in January 2023."
The decision from NBC came after other media companies similarly criticizing the HFPA. Netflix and Amazon Studios have both said they will not work with HFPA over the concerns.
Actors have also joined the campaign.
Tom Cruise reportedly sent his three awards from the Golden Globes back to the offices of the HFPA on Monday. He won a best actor award for "Jerry McGuire," another best actor award for "Born on the Fourth of July," and a third for best supporting actor for his role in "Magnolia."
Scarlett Johansson also criticized the group and said that she has refused to participate in HFPA news conferences over the behavior of some of their members.
"As an actor promoting a film, one is expected to participate in awards season by attending press conferences as well as awards shows," the actress explained.
"In the past, this has often meant facing sexist questions and remarks by certain HFPA members that bordered on sexual harassment," Johansson said. "It is the exact reason why I, for many years, refused to participate in their conferences."
Some celebrities even jabbed at the Hollywood Foreign Press Association during the presentation of the 78th Golden Globes in March.
Although the HFPA has said the group will take steps to make its membership more reflective of global demographics, critics say it is stalling on those reforms.
"We understand that we need to bring in Black members as well as members from other underrepresented backgrounds, and we will immediately work to implement an action plan to achieve these goals as soon as possible," said the HFPA in February.
For many of the group's critics, the promise was not enough.
"Unless there is necessary fundamental reform within the organization," Johansson said. "I believe it is time that we take a step back from the HFPA and focus on the importance and strength of unity within our unions and the industry as a whole."
Here's more about the accusations against the HFPA:The president of the second-largest teachers union in the United States said Monday that she supports schools fully reopening for the fall semester but would not commit to doing so.
In a contentious interview, Fox News host Martha MacCallum and American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten argued about school reopenings and whether teachers unions had successfully lobbied to keep schools closed even though scientific evidence suggested children are at low risk for spreading COVID-19, as the New York Post reported last week.
Weingarten told MacCallum that she hopes schools will be open in the fall and that her union would not require children to be vaccinated before schools reopen. She did not definitively state that schools would be fully opened this fall. She defended the teachers unions' record on school openings, casting blame for the slow return to in-person instruction on the Trump administration, and on vaccine hesitancy among Fox News viewers.
"Right now 97% of schools are open," Weingarten claimed, but MacCallum interjected to clarify that only 67% of schools were reopen for full-time in-person instruction.
"We believe that the conditions have changed now so that everybody can be back in full time, but the bottom line is this: I begged the Trump administration, I can show you — I have many, many letters right now. I went to my office to find them," Weingarten said. "I begged the Trump administration to do exactly what the Biden administration did, which is real safety guidance that Trump, that the former president didn't mock every other day."
Weingarten went on to praise the Biden administration for issuing the safety guidance AFT had lobbied for, but MacCallum interrupted her to point out that the Trump administration had aggressively pushed for schools to reopen because studies were showing viral "transmission among children is very low."
She added that the U.S. has lagged behind countries like China and Russia in sending children back to school for in-person instruction.
Weingarten blamed the teachers union opposition to reopening schools on former President Donald Trump.
"If we had actually listened to Dr. [Robert] Redfield and the CDC last May and that the president — the former president — hadn't kept on changing his mind and changing these things, we would have gotten more schools back in session," she claimed.
"Really?" An incredulous MacCallum responded. "Because, what you told me was that there wasn't money, that some of these schools had problems like mold, I mean, all these things started getting into the mix that were not part of the equation at all when parents were just wanting to get their kids to go back.
"Obviously, you didn't have the pull with the prior administration, but in this administration there's been $20 million that has gone from — to Democrats — from teachers unions and teacher organizations," MacCallum continued, referencing the Post's report that AFT donated $20 million to the Democratic Party during the 2020 election. "So that money seems to be working."
Weingarten dismissed the accusation, pointing out that school reopenings were complicated by COVID-19 spikes in November and December and adding that the availability of vaccines, thanks to the Trump and Biden administrations, is now "a real game changer" for schools reopening.
MacCallum countered that virus transmission rates among students in the classroom "was very low" even during the COVID-19 spikes.
"The bottom line, Martha, is it's time for our kids to be back in school," Weingarten responded. "I am grateful that the Biden administration is listening to parents and to teachers and to administrators and to even Fox to try to figure out how we get people vaccinated, how we get our kids back to school and how we get our country back to being back."
Asked what needs to happen for schools to fully reopen in the fall, Weingarten said Fox News needs to tell its viewers that the vaccine is safe, implying that the network is responsible for spreading misinformation on vaccines.
"I would hope that Fox would do what everybody else in public health is doing, which is, 'We have to get our kids vaccinated once the vaccination is ok," Weingarten said, though earlier she said students would not be required to get a vaccine for schools to reopen. "I would hope Fox says to all of these people that don't want the vaccines that think there's a problem, 'Why don't you and I do things together to get our kids back to school.'"
"This is what we need to do," she added. "We have to stop the misinformation, we have to stop the disinformation, we have to stop the chaos."A Washington state school district is circling the wagons amid complaints over a teacher who read a transgender-affirming children's book to first-grade students recently.
What are the details?
The hubbub unfolded after Young America's Foundation said it received an anonymous tip from a parent who provided a screenshot of an email exchange with the teacher who admitted to reading "I Am Jazz" to students.
"Yes, I did read this book," the teacher replied, according to the outlet. "As a district we are working hard to support all members of our school community and promote inclusion through understanding and compassion."
YAF said concerned parents reached out to officials with Bellingham Schools but no action was taken. The outlet added that one parent contacted Superintendent Greg Baker, who reportedly wouldn't engage over email but agreed to a phone call. However, YAF said Baker wouldn't conduct the phone call after the parent insisted on recording the conversation.
The Christian Post reported that the controversy at Geneva Elementary School culminated with the concerned parent "pulling his kid out of this teacher's class," according to an interview with YAF.
But Baker did eventually go public regarding the controversy on the district's website last week, and he praised "I Am Jazz" and touted the district's "values" as well as its "commitment to equitable, diverse and inclusive education."
"Our teachers share books with children that are age-appropriate and that provide insights into lives of people who are like them and people who are different from them," Baker wrote. "'I Am Jazz' is part of our library book collection in our elementary schools and has been in our libraries for several years. The message of 'I Am Jazz' is a child reflecting on their own gender identity and that all people are unique and wonderful."
What's the background on the book?
"I Am Jazz" caused a stir in 2015 when parents of some students at Mitchell Primary School in Kittery, Maine, criticized school officials for failing to notify them that their kids were to read the book. Superintendent of Schools Allyn Hutton said in a statement that the book was part of a lesson on "tolerance and respect."
The book's author Jazz Jennings was born a male but has been living as a female since the age of 5.
I Am Jazz | Book youtu.be
Jennings underwent gender confirmation surgery in 2018. Prior to the operation, Jennings posted a video to fans proclaiming great excitement about it: "Like penis to vagina. That's some serious s**t, y'all ... I can't believe it. I'm gonna have a vagina!"
Oh, but there's more
YAF told the Christian Post that the parent upset about the "I Am Jazz" reading to first graders contacted the school board president, who answered with "a very standard form response, such as, 'We have received your response, thank you for your inquiry.' And beyond that, she never returned the parent's email."
After that, YAF took note that Jennifer Mason, president of the Bellingham School Board, owns and operates a sex shop in town called WinkWink, which is described as "an inclusive space for people of all gender identities and ages." Mason told Western Front in 2018 that while the store only sells to those 16 and older, people of any age may enter it.
"I want to show people if sex isn't something to be ashamed about, then I should be able to be an elected official and own a sex shop at the same time," Mason added to Western Front. "That's what it means to live your values."
Mason has been school board president since 2017. Mason's Instagram page, which is set to private, indicates she's "Head Dildo at WinkWink."
The Bellingham Herald on Friday published a story abut the controversy with a headline that seemed curious for a news story: "Here's why Bellingham school officials are being harassed by far-right websites."
"Bellingham school officials and a local business have been targeted with antisemitic and other hate speech and harassment over a children's book about a transgender girl that was read to first-graders, the superintendent said Thursday, May 7," the Herald noted.
More from the paper:
Harassment toward school staff apparently stems from stories on the websites of the right-wing Young America's Foundation and at The Daily Wire, run by far-right media personality Ben Shapiro.
Both websites cite anonymous sources for their information, but they provide the name and contact information for the teacher they claim read the book, along with information about Jenn Mason, school board president.
School spokeswoman Dana Smith said the district has been receiving malicious emails and phone calls.
The Herald wrote that WinkWink is "a 'woman-owned, inclusive, all-ages, not creepy, sex shop' in downtown Bellingham." Mason, who is Jewish, told the paper that "in the past 24 hours, I've received a lot of questions and messages of support, but I've also received a lot of antisemitic and anti-trans hate speech."
"Our shop serves a huge number of queer and trans folks," she added to the Herald. "I feel honored to play a role in their lives. If anything, all this vitriol just shows how much more work we need to do to support trans kids."
In his superintendent's message, Baker wrote that media attention on the controversy focused on a "private business owned by one of our school board members. This attention is prompting hate speech and harassment based on our values as a district and our commitment to equitable, diverse and inclusive education."The Walt Disney Company is asking employees to complete a white privilege check list, and it insists in the company's documents that America was founded on systemic racism.
Disney recently introduced a diversity and inclusion program called "Reimagine Tomorrow." The program is described as an anti-racism discussion guide. The program asks "What can I do about racism?"
"Finally. Thank you," Pat said sarcastically.
Pat got fired up about this "garbage" and said he was about to snap.
"Is it time employ the tactics of the Left and start boycotting companies like this?" Pat asked. "I think it is."
Watch the video to hear more from Monday's show. Can't watch? Download the podcast here.
Want more from Pat Gray?
To enjoy more of Pat's biting analysis and signature wit as he restores common sense to a senseless world, subscribe to BlazeTV — the largest multi-platform network of voices who love America, defend the Constitution and live the American dream.President Joe Biden denied Monday that the generous federal unemployment benefits were a contributing factor to Friday's disappointing jobs report while at the same time clarifying that anyone who has been offered a "suitable job" must take the job or lose their benefits.
The president delivered remarks on the economy Monday at the White House after a Friday jobs report stunned economists who had predicted the U.S. economy would add nearly 1 million jobs in April, only to find out only 266,000 jobs were created and the unemployment rate actually rose from 6% to 6.1%.
"Let's be clear, our economic plan is working," Biden insisted, noting that since he took office in January more than 1.5 million jobs have been created in the U.S. as the country reopens from COVID-19 lockdown policies and business restrictions. "I never said and no serious analysis ever suggested that climbing out of the deep deep hole that our economy was in would be simple, easy, immediate or perfectly studied."
Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce blamed the lackluster jobs numbers on the $300-per-week unemployment insurance benefits generously offered in the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package that passed in March. The benefits, which critics say pay unemployed people more than they would earn if they found a job, were extended through September under the Biden plan.
Biden explained Monday that anyone currently collecting unemployment insurance is liable to lose their benefits if they are offered a job but refuse to take it.
"Anyone collecting unemployment who is offered a suitable job must take the job or lose their unemployment benefits," Biden said, adding that there are some COVID-19-related "exceptions."
Responding to his critics, Biden said "we don't see much evidence" of people being paid to stay home rather than go to work.
"It's easy to say, the line has been, because of the generous unemployment benefits that is a major factor in labor shortages. Americans want to work," Biden said. "I think the people who claim Americans won't work even if they find a good and fair opportunity underestimate the American people."
The president announced several actions his administration will take to distribute economic aid from his coronavirus relief package and hopefully spur job growth.
The U.S. Treasury Department will begin to send state and local governments more than $350 billion in bailout funds to cover their budget deficits and rehire about 1.8 million government employees who were laid off during the pandemic, including teachers, first responders, sanitation workers, and other essential workers. The administration is also beginning to send relief checks to some 16,000 restaurants who applied for assistance.
Biden encouraged employers to take advantage of programs offered in his American Rescue Plan, like the ability to hire back laid-off workers part-time without having those workers lose their unemployment benefits or a tax credit for keeping workers on payrolls.
Republicans say the administration needs to do more to make unemployment benefits less attractive than finding and maintaining a paying job. Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) announced legislation to convert unemployment benefits into a federal hiring bonus that will supplement qualifying workers' paychecks if they find a job by July 4, 2021.
State officials are also taking action. Last week, the governors of South Carolina and Montana announced that enhanced federal unemployment benefits would end for residents in their state, claiming the benefits are discouraging people from finding work and causing labor shortages. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) announced separately that his state will require residents to show proof they are looking for work to continue to receive unemployment insurance.
The Biden administration claims that there is no evidence to support the idea federal benefits are causing the labor shortage. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo said Sunday that many Americans aren't returning to work yet because of ongoing fears about contracting COVID-19 and difficulty in finding childcare while schools remain closed for in-person instruction. President Biden has proposed a $1.8 trillion plan that would in-part subsidize child care for American families and federally fund free pre-school tuition for 3- and 4-year-olds.Bill Maher, the left-wing host of HBO's "Real Time," has been on a roll the last few months on the state of the Democratic Party, the woke left, and cancel culture.
Though he's still a liberal and still loves to roundly mock conservatives and Republicans, he's racked up quite a run of criticisms for today's leftists:
He urged liberals to create a "Stand Your Ground law ... for cancel culture" and "stop apologizing."
He warned that "cancel culture is real, it's insane, it's growing exponentially, and it's coming to a neighborhood near you."
He defended Gina Carano after Disney fired her for likening censorship of conservatives to Nazi Germany.
He mocked attempts to erase the names of Presidents Washington and Lincoln: "Memo to social justice warriors: When what you're doing sounds like an Onion headline, stop."
He observed that the U.S. is falling behind on the world stage because Americans are far too focused on a "never-ending woke competition."
He ripped progressive attempts to "sacrifice merit for equity" in U.S. education.
He blasted SJW "brats" who "control the media."
He said that the cancel culture is "Stalinesque."
He rebuked "gullible" Millennials and Gen Zers for having "stupid" ideas.
He even offered praise for Florida Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis' efforts during the pandemic while attacking the media's "panic porn."
Last weekend was no exception.
During the late-night Friday episode, Maher went after today's Democratic Party for being "fun-suckers," likening them to the puritanical Republican Party of the 1980s and '90s.
After spending most of his monologue attacking the GOP for their hypocrisy, flipping from being so uptight that "they could grind diamonds in their ass" to defending people like Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), who has been accused of paying for sex with a 17-year-old girl and who reportedly has a reputation of going to parties rife with people doing drugs and having sex.
This has Maher fed up, because he knows that now, his party, the Democratic Party, has become "uptight" in its wokeness.
"I don't want to live in a world where liberals are the uptight ones," he said. "Once upon a time, the right were the ones offended by everything. They were the party of speech codes and blacklists and moral panics and demanding some TV show had to go.
"Well, now that's us," a disgusted Maher said. "We're the fun-suckers now.
"We suck the fun out of everything: Halloween, the Oscars, childhood, Twitter, comedy," he continued. "It's like woke kids on campus decided to be all the worst parts of a Southern Baptist."
He went on to note that if the "new puritanical Democratic Party" had "policed morality" over the last several decades as they do now, they would be "down a lot of heroes" — including "FDR, JFK, RFK, LBJ, Clinton, Martin Luther King."
Democrats, he added, can no longer "tell the difference between Anthony Weiner and Al Franken," referring to two men kicked out of the party for very different accusations of sexual improprieties.
It's time, he said, for his party to get back to being the party with few moral hangups and let the GOP resume its role of being uptight.
Content warning: rough language:A Minnesota black school choice movement has blasted the notion of the United States as being racist wholly false.
What are the details?
The movement, TakeCharge Minnesota, is a school choice movement founded in the black community and vows to tackle the idea of systemic racism.
The notion of systemic racism, the organization states, is "structured to undermine the lives of black Americans."
According to the organization's website, Kendall Qualls, a former U.S. Army officer and outspoken Republican, is leading the movement, which intends to counter that narrative and aims to "inspire and educate the black community and other minority groups in the Twin Cities to take charge of their own lives."
"We acknowledge that racist people exist in the country, but explicitly reject the notion that the United States of America is a racist country," the organization's website states. "This is a subtle, but significant difference! We also denounce the idea that the country is guilty of systemic racism, white privilege and abhor the concept of identity politics and the promotion of victimhood in minority communities."
The group's mission is "to inspire and educate black and other minorities communities of their full rights and privileges as Americans greatness to them by the Constitution."
The group also insists that the way to do this is through quality education, which the group calls the "gateway to prosperity."
"We desire to inspire them to take charge of their own lives, the lives of their children, and not to rely on government and politicians for redemption and prosperity," the site adds. "We do not apologize for embracing America or its history. We believe that a well-grounded knowledge of American and world history strengthens our diverse country."
Qualls ran against incumbent Democrat Rep. Dean Phillips in Minnesota's 3rd District in November, but lost. He founded TakeCharge Minnesota two months later.
Qualls and the organization made new headlines over the weekend after an ad for the group appeared in the Star Tribune.
The ad — to commemorate Mother's Day — read, "For many of you, it is a Happy Mother's Day. But for us, it is not — because our children are being held in bondage. It is the bondage in Minneapolis Public Schools that, for five consecutive years, rank at the bottom of the country in test scores and graduation rates for students of color. Black children from Mississippi rank higher than Minnesota. We want a Mother's Day gift of freedom — freedom of choice. Freedom as mothers, grandmothers, sisters, and aunts to choose the right school for the children in our families. Help us start a new life for them by supporting school choice."
Anything else?
On Monday, the Minnesota Spokesman-Recorder reported that K-12 enrollment in Minneapolis and St. Paul charter schools has grown exponentially — from 1,791 in 2001 to 11,624 in 2019 in Minneapolis, and 2,993 in 2001 to 12,432 in 2019 in St. Paul.
From the Spokesman-Recorder:
Nationally, "More options also mean a greater diversity of school environments that provide better matches for parents and students looking for the 'right fit' for children's development," said Pennsylvania Coalition of Public Charter Schools President Lenny McAllister, a school choice proponent. He told the MSR that school choice, in light of historical academic achievement gaps, has helped Black children and other students of color. He disagrees with those who claim that school choice produces "re-segregation."Last week, when the Biden administration released a shocking report showing anemic job growth, many U.S. companies said pandemic unemployment insurance was responsible for creating a labor shortage. In response, Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) announced new legislation over the weekend that would incentivize people to go back to work by turning unemployment insurance into a signing bonus for new hires.
In a press statement, Sasse said he will introduce the "National Signing Bonus Act," a bill that would convert unemployment insurance's expanded benefits into a two-month bonus for anyone who goes back to work.
"A year ago, before we had vaccines, expanded unemployment benefits started to pay more than work. The emergency need was real, but the emergency plan was flawed. The emergency UI program is now penalizing people for going back to work," Sasse said.
"Now, as millions of Americans are vaccinated each day, we've got crummy job numbers – 7,400,000 jobs are available but fewer than 300,000 people returned to work last month. We've got to get America and Americans up and running. We need a pro-worker, pro-recovery plan," he added.
Sasse's plan would pay a bonus equal to 101% of current pandemic unemployment insurance benefits through several payments for anyone who demonstrates they found a job and are keeping it. Anyone who gets a job by July 4 would be eligible to receive the payments.
President Joe Biden extended enhanced $300-per-week unemployment benefits through September as part of his $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief plan. Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Congress have blamed the enhanced benefits for bottlenecking the jobs market by paying people more to be unemployed than they could earn by having a job.
Economists had predicted that nearly 1 million new jobs would be reported for April, following the trend from February when 536,000 new jobs were added and March when 770,000 were added. Instead, only 266,000 new jobs were added in April, and the unemployment rate rose to 6.1%. Bloomberg reported that the overall employment rate is still 8 million jobs short of pre-pandemic levels.
When those crushing numbers were reported Friday, Sasse issued a statement criticizing unemployment insurance for offering people more pay than a job.
"We should be clear about the policy failure at work here: There are 7,400,000 jobs open in the US – but fewer than 300,000 people found new work last month. Why? This tragedy is what happens when Washington know-it-all's decide to pretend they're generous by paying more for unemployment than for work. This obviously hurts our economy, but more precisely this hurts people on every Main Street in the nation," he said.China produces more greenhouse gas emissions than any other developed nation in the world combined, according to new data.
What are the details?
Despite climate change alarmists who claim the U.S. has a problem with greenhouse gas emissions, a new report from the Rhodium Group exposes China as the world's overwhelming leader of greenhouse gas emissions.
Researchers said China was responsible for 27% of all greenhouse gas emissions in 2019, nearly three times the amount emitted by the United States and more than the entire developed world combined.
The U.S. contributed 11%, while India and the European Union were each over 6%.
Shockingly, China's greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 have more than tripled since 1990, according to the Rhodium Group, when "China's emissions were less than a quarter of developed country emissions."
China's per capita emissions have also skyrocketed, according to Rhodium Group — but still significantly trail the U.S.
"China's 2019 per capita emissions reached 10.1 tons, nearly tripling over the past two decades. This comes in just below avg levels across the [Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development] bloc (10.5 tons), but still significantly lower than the US, which has the highest per capita emissions at 17.6 tons," the group tweeted.
The research group appeared to soften China's massive greenhouse gas output by explaining China is responsible for relatively less emissions than other developed countries that industrialized prior to China.
"China's history as a major emitter is relatively short compared to developed countries, many of which had more than a century head start. A large share of the CO2 emitted into the atmosphere each year hangs around for hundreds of years. As a result, current global warming is the result of emissions from both the recent and more distant past. Since 1750, members of the OECD bloc have emitted four times more CO2 on a cumulative basis than China," the group wrote.
What about 2020?
Preliminary data from 2020 show that, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, greenhouse gas emissions continued to rise in China.
"Based on preliminary economic and energy data, we estimate that total GHG emissions in China increased 1.7% in 2020, reaching 14,400 million metric tons (MMt) of CO2e," the Rhodium Group said.
"To put that figure in context, we estimate that is the equivalent of the total annual emissions of nearly 180 of the world's lowest-emitting countries combined," researchers explained.
Despite the massive amount of emissions, China signed the Paris climate agreement and Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged to make China carbon neutral by 2060.CNN's Jake Tapper pushed President Joe Biden's COVID-19 coordinator Jeff Zients on why the president refuses to follow the guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on face masks for people who are fully vaccinated against the virus.
Zients responded by claiming the president actually was following agency guidance while misquoting what the CDC's guidance actually is.
What's the background?
President Biden, who has been fully vaccinated since January, has sent a lot of mixed messages on face masks and CDC guidance, despite repeated claims that he and his administration would be "following the science" when it comes to the coronavirus pandemic.
Late last month, the CDC issued new face mask guidelines saying that fully vaccinated Americans do not need to wear masks outdoors, or even indoors in many cases. Fully vaccinated people, the CDC said, can gather outdoors without wearing a mask except in certain crowded settings and can also gather indoors without wearing a mask or staying six feet apart.
Yet just a couple days after the agency issued its new "science-based" guidance, Biden was on NBC's "Today" saying he would keep flouting the new mask rules by wearing a mask outdoors because, he said, "it's a patriotic responsibility for God's sake."
And last Friday, the president was asked during an event at the White House why he chose to wear a mask when he's fully vaccinated and around others who are also vaccinated.
He responded, "Because when we're inside, it's still good policy to wear the mask."
What did the COVID czar say?
Noting the Friday exchange, Tapper asked Zients if it is "really necessary for a fully vaccinated person to wear a mask at a limited indoor gathering if everyone there is vaccinated."
Zients responded by misquoting the actual guidance from the CDC.
"Well, the CDC has given guidance that, when you're with family and friends that are vaccinated in small groups, you don't need a mask," the COVID czar said.
But that's not what the CDC's mask guidance for fully vaccinated people says.
According to the CDC, "If you've been fully vaccinated: You can gather indoors with fully vaccinated people without wearing a mask or staying 6 feet apart."
Tapper — who confronted senior Biden adviser Anita Dunn on the same topic a week earlier — continued to press Zients on the president's mixed messages about vaccines and notion of trusting the experts.
"Why does President Biden in a room full of vaccinated journalists — with everybody in that room vaccinated — why does he need to wear a mask?" Tapper asked.
Zients replied, "The president is going to continue to follow the CDC guidance" — though he didn't admit that the CDC's official guidance is to do the opposite of what President Biden is doing.
Tapper also cited former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb's recent recommendation that the CDC start lifting indoor mask mandates now, in order to send a message of science-based vaccine confidence.
But Biden's COVID coordinator was not to be moved off his defense of his boss' decision to ignore actual CDC guidance:
We're going to look to the CDC. The president from day one has said we're going to rely on science and facts, and that's what we'll do. The CDC has, across the last several weeks, given guidance for vaccinated people to do indoor gatherings with other vaccinated people, as I talked about earlier, to not wear masks outside, except when you're in a very crowded place. And we look forward to further guidance from the CDC about what the advantages are of being vaccinated. What is clear is anyone who's not vaccinated should get vaccinated.
However, Tapper continued to press Zients on the messaging, saying, "I think one of the reasons why journalists are annoyingly harping on this and some health experts are is because there is a light at the end of the tunnel, and President Biden being able to take off his mask in a room full of journalists and White House staffers, all of whom are fully vaccinated, is a demonstration that the vaccines work."
Yet Zients obfuscated on the president's repeated and obvious refusal to follow CDC guidelines — and then preached that all Americans should ... "follow the CDC guidance."On the heels of the news that New Zealand weightlifter Laurel Hubbard — a biological male who identifies and competes as a female — is set to become the first-ever transgender athlete to compete in the Olympics, it appears some biological female athletes are none too pleased.
And their concerns apparently don't just fall on deaf ears; allegedly they're told to shut up about the unfairness of it all.
What are the details?
Former Olympic weightlifter Tracey Lambrechs said in regard to Hubbard, "We're all about equality for women in sport, but right now that equality is being taken away from us. I've had female weightlifters come up to me and say, 'What do we do? This isn't fair, what do we do?' Unfortunately, there's nothing we can do because every time we voice it, we get told to be quiet," Australia's 7 News reported.
Lambrechs — who won a bronze medal for New Zealand at the 2014 Commonwealth Games — added that she's "quite disappointed, quite disappointed for the female athlete who will lose out on that spot," the station reported, citing TVNZ.
The New Zealand Olympic Committee isn't expected to name its weightlifting team until June, but 7 News reported that the country's Olympic weightlifting coach Simon Kent said the 43-year-old Hubbard has met the current criteria.
"The rules are in place, that's the playing field we're playing in, so that's how we're going to move forward," Kent said, according to the outlet, which cited TVNZ.
What's the background?
Hubbard — who lived as a male for 35 years — transitioned to female in 2012 and began winning competitions several years later.
Hubbard made a splash in 2017 after winning two silver medals in a women's world championship — and then in 2019 took home two gold medals and a silver medal in the women's competition at the Pacific Games in Samoa.
In 2015, IOC guidelines ruled that transgender athletes can compete as women if their testosterone levels are below 10 nanomoles per liter for at least 12 months before their first competition, Reuters reported.
But numerous scientists have criticized these guidelines, saying they do little to mitigate the biological advantages of those who have gone through puberty as males, including bone and muscle density, 7 News reported.
Here's Hubbard in action in early 2020:
🏆Laurel Hubbard Gold Medal (NZL) 126-144 Weightlifting World Cup Roma 2020 youtu.be
Anything else?
Australia's weightlifting federation tried blocking Hubbard from the 2018 Commonwealth Games, 7 News added, but organizers rejected the move. The outlet added that rival weightlifters and coaches at the Commonwealth Games also complained.
Hubbard suffered a ruptured elbow ligament while attempting a 291-pound lift at the 2018 event while Lambrechs finished fifth.
Lambrechs won bronze at the Commonwealth Games in 2014, and 7 News said she finished 13th in the lower weight division at the 2016 Rio Olympics.Starbucks is reportedly considering whether to pull its social media presence from Facebook after it began receiving deluges of negative remarks to its decidedly "woke" posts.
What are the details?
According to a Monday report from the New York Post, the company is in the process of "evaluating their organic presence on Facebook."
On Thursday, BuzzFeed News reported that it had obtained internal Facebook discussions in which employees reported that Starbucks may take down its Facebook page. At the time of this reporting, the page has more than 35 million followers. The company is reportedly considering the move because of the "response it's gotten to its post about social issues."
A Facebook employee reportedly told colleagues, "Starbucks is in the process of evaluating their organic presence on FB, and whether they should continue to have a presence on the platform at all."
The Facebook employee's message reportedly continued, "Anything they post (organically) in regards to social issues or their mission & values work (e.g. BLM, LGBTQ, sustainability/climate change, etc.) they are overwhelmed by negative/insensitive hate speech related comments on their posts."
Starbucks, according to the insider, has reportedly struggled to moderate the tide of negative responses and cannot disable comments on its page.
The Post reported that if Starbucks yanked its Facebook page, it would be among "the largest companies ever to depart the platform."
In 2018, Tesla and SpaceX CEO billionaire Elon Musk deleted both brands' Facebook pages as part of the #DeleteFacebook campaign.
A Starbucks spokesperson told BuzzFeed News that the company stands "against that speech." The spokesperson did not, however, confirm whether the company is considering yanking its Facebook presence.
"While some changes have been implemented, we believe more can be done to create welcoming and inclusive online communities," the spokesperson added. "We work collaboratively with all companies we do business with to ensure any advertising done on our behalf is in alignment with our brand standards."
A spokesperson for Facebook told the outlet that the company works hard to "keep hate off their pages."
“We don't want hate on our platform and neither do our partners," the spokesperson said. “We have invested in technologies to take down hate speech, and we proactively detect 97 percent of what we remove. We also offer tools to limit this content from appearing on partners' pages including ways for brands to control those who can comment on their posts."
What else?
Rashad Robinson, who is president of civil rights organization Color of Change, told BuzzFeed News that he is "encouraged" by the idea that Starbucks would leave the platform.
“I can see other companies joining Starbucks — but unless Facebook is accountable to a set of rules and standards, then their exit from Facebook won't change Facebook," Robinson said in a statement.The Biden administration took action Monday to require hospitals to perform sex-change procedures and offer other other transgender medical services or face anti-discrimination lawsuits, restoring an Obama-era policy that had been ended by President Donald Trump.
The Department of Health and Human Services announced that its Office of Civil Rights will interpret and enforce laws that prohibit discrimination based on sex to include sexual orientation and gender identity, in line with the recent Supreme Court decision in Bostock v. Clayton County.
"The Supreme Court has made clear that people have a right not to be discriminated against on the basis of sex and receive equal treatment under the law, no matter their gender identity or sexual orientation. That's why today HHS announced it will act on related reports of discrimination," HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra said. "Fear of discrimination can lead individuals to forgo care, which can have serious negative health consequences. It is the position of the Department of Health and Human Services that everyone — including LGBTQ people — should be able to access health care, free from discrimination or interference, period."
The Supreme Court's 6-3 decision in Bostock established that federal laws that prohibit sex discrimination in employment also protect gay and transgender people. Days before that ruling last year, the Trump administration acted to protect the conscience rights of medical professionals who object to transgender or abortion procedures by interpreting "sex" to mean biological sex in health care law. Trump's policy was a reversal of an Obama-era rule that interpreted the Affordable Care Act to include gay and transgender people as protected classes. A federal judge blocked the Trump rule from taking effect, but the Trump administration argued that because health care law is a separate matter from employment discrimination law, it still had the power to define "sex" as biological sex in matters related to health care.
Now the Trump rule is officially gone and the Obama-era rule has been reinstated by President Joe Biden. Hospitals, clinics, and other medial providers are once again subject to government sanctions if they deny sex-change surgeries, such as hysterectomies, or hormone treatments to people who identify as transgender, while offering those procedures for other medical conditions.
"The mission of our Department is to enhance the health and well-being of all Americans, no matter their gender identity or sexual orientation. All people need access to healthcare services to fix a broken bone, protect their heart health, and screen for cancer risk," Dr. Rachel Levine, the first transgender person to be confirmed as assistant secretary for health, said. "No one should be discriminated against when seeking medical services because of who they are."
Reacting to the announcement, social conservative groups warned that hospitals and medical professionals could be forced to provide sex-change procedures to anyone who demands one, even children, or face legal action.
"Make no mistake: the policy announced by HHS today is not about 'fix[ing] a broken bone' or 'screen[ing] for cancer risk.' No American was being denied access to these treatments for identifying as 'LGBTQ,'" American Principles Project President Terry Schilling said. "Rather, this policy is really about forcing hospitals and medical professionals to adhere to leftist ideology regarding sexuality and gender—and in particular to provide sex-change procedures to all comers, including children."
Matt Bowman, senior counsel at Alliance Defending Freedom, said that Biden's administration is "arbitrarily" redefining "sex" via administrative action.
"This action promotes dangerous procedures for minors, threatens to compel medical professionals to contradict their best medical judgment about what promotes patient health and to violate their oath to 'do no harm,' and threatens to strip professionals of their ability to continue serving vulnerable populations," said Bowman.
Editor's note: This article was updated on 5/10/2021 at 4:18 p.m. ET with a statement from the Alliance Defending Freedom.Comedian Dave Chappelle blasted woke culture and the cast of NBC's "Saturday Night Live" in a recent podcast for being outraged over Elon Musk being tapped to host the comedy show.
What is the background?
While it was not immediately clear why some "SNL" writers and cast members did not want Musk to host the show, Page Six reported that NBC executives would not force triggered cast members to appear alongside Musk — giving them a safe space, if you will.
"Speaking historically, if a cast member has been that unhappy, they don't have to do it," a source told Page Six. "['SNL' boss Lorne Michaels] won't ever make them do anything they don't want to do."
What did Chappelle say?
Speaking with Joe Rogan about the cast's outrage over Musk, the legendary comedian said "no one can be woke enough."
"I'm torn, because I like a warrior for a good cause, but I'm really into tactics. You're not gonna nag people into behaving in a way — in fact, if you continue with this tone, even if you're right, you'll be very hard to hear," Chappelle said.
Rogan agreed, "No one is woke enough."
Both Chappelle and Rogan expressed confusion over why the "SNL" cast was upset about Musk, suggesting it was because he is the world's richest man or that he analyzed the COVID-19 pandemic from a factual, not emotional, perspective.
Rogan theorized the real problem with woke culture is intolerance.
"I think the people that are complaining that he's gonna be on 'Saturday Night Live,' I think what's going on now is they want someone to be 100% compliant to whatever ideology they're a part of — and any deviation from that is problematic," Rogan said.
The Joe Rogan Experience #1647 - Dave Chappelle youtu.be
Anything else?
Chappelle was targeted by the woke crowd in 2019 following the release of his Netflix comedy special "Sticks & Stones," in which he mocked the left's politically correct agenda.
But Chappelle mocked critics and made it clear he would not acquiesce to the left's demands.
"Political correctness has its place. We all want to live in a polite society, we just have to kind of work on the levels of coming to agreement of what that actually looks like," Chappelle said. "I, personally, am not afraid of other people's freedom of expression. I don't use it as a weapon. It just makes me feel better. And I'm sorry if I hurt anybody. Etc., etc. Yada, yada, yada. Everything I'm supposed to say."Daisy Barringer, a self-proclaimed freelance editor and writer who is verified on Twitter, said that she hoped Tesla CEO Elon Musk would burn to death in one of his Teslas after she insisted he flashed a "white power" hand sign during his recent "Saturday Night Live" hosting duties.
Barringer's tweets are now protected at the time of this writing.
What are the details?
Barringer took supreme exception to Musk flashing the "OK" hand sign — which many in the woke crowd claim is a white power sign — during a Saturday segment on the popular comedy sketch show.
She wrote, "Wait. Whaaaaaaaaa… did Elon Musk just … like… aggressively flash the white power sign during the Weekend Update? Please tell me I'm insane. Please. No really. Going to need you to tell me I'm insane."
Image source: Wayback Machine screenshot
"Listen, usually when I say I hope someone dies in a fire, I'm being hyperbolic," Barringer continued, the Daily Wire noted. "But, like, Tesla's do burn for four hours straight, so like ... I'm not gonna be mad about it. I kept watching because I really hoped one of the cast members was going to walk to the front of the stage at the closing and punch him out."
She later added, "Definitely never thought Saturday Night Live would send me into a tornado of existential despair. But here we are. I almost don't have words but I will say I hope his Tesla catches on fire and he dies."
Image source: Wayback Machine screenshot
What else?
The Daily Wire reported that Barringer also insisted that Musk was not just ignorantly flashing the "OK" sign — he was intentionally promoting white supremacy during the appearance and called out people on social media who were reportedly defending him.
"SUPER shocking that the white supremacists are searching Twitter to 'correct' people about the never-been-more-obvious Elon Musk white power sign," she added. "It's like ... I want to just roll my eyes, but that's the last thing to do with Nazis."
"Omg the people excusing Elon Musk saying it's the 'okay' symbol," Barringer added. "Wow wow wow. I guess they never learned about context. Why would [he] be saying okay at all, much less forwards and backwards."With newfangled vaccination bracelets now on the market, a standard question from public venue gatekeepers could end up being "May I see your ImmunaBand?" rather than "May I see your vaccine card?"
What are the details?
KSWB-TV ran a report last week on a bracelet that can offer proof that you've been vaccinated. It's called the ImmunaBand, and it comes from Dr. Toshof Bernton of Denver, who said the invention was actually his son's idea from several months ago.
Image source: KSWB-TV video screenshot
"If we had something where you can say, 'OK, I support the vaccine effort, I've been vaccinated, I'm safe to be around,' it would help us particularly as we start opening up," Bernton told the station.
Image source: KSWB-TV video screenshot
The ImmunaBand has been for sale for about a month, and KSWB said thousands of the $19.99 bracelets have sold already.
Bernton said the ImmunaBand — which he believes is the first of its kind on the market — stores vaccine records so wearers don't have to carry around their vaccine cards.
How does it work?
Once you've purchased the bracelet, you send a copy of your vaccine card to the ImmunaBand company, which loads your record into its encrypted website, the station said. After that, the bracelet comes in the mail with a QR code affixed to it, KSWB said.
The station said that if officials want to verify that you've been vaccinated, they pull out their cellphones, take an image of the QR code, and then they can see your vaccine record.
Image source: KSWB-TV video screenshot
Bernton noted to the station that if your ImmunaBand is stolen, the thief can get to the website but not to your vaccine record unless your PIN is known.
One of Bernton's customers sent him a photo of himself wearing an ImmunaBand at a New York Knicks game at Madison Square Garden, KSWB said, and the customer said he was allowed into the venue after an employee at the gate pulled up the website through the QR code.
Image source: KSWB-TV video screenshot
Madison Square Garden's policy says that "guests can now enter with proof of a negative antigen COVID-19 test or full vaccination."
In March, New York Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced a pilot program for a COVID-19 electronic passport that allows users entry into public venues. TheBlaze reported last week that a growing number of NBA and MLB franchises will be asking for "vaccine passports" as they reopen their venues.
What has been the reaction?
Bernton also told the station that a lot of companies in the travel and hospitality industries are buying his vaccination bracelets for their employees. KSWB spoke to outdoor restaurant patrons in the Little Italy section of San Diego regarding the new ImmunaBand and received mixed reactions to the invention.
"It's a little too much," one woman told the station.
But another patron, Keshaun Slaughter, told KSWB that the vaccination bracelet is "actually [a] pretty good" idea since "a lot of people have their doubts about going in certain areas and certain places, so if there's actually people with QR codes on wristbands, it will make it a lot easier for people to be comfortable."Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) says that anyone who would harm a person, their property, or police officers needs to stay out of the state — or face "swift" and "severe" consequences.
What are the details?
DeSantis warned that if rioters begin demonstrating in Florida — as they do in various places in Oregon — they will be met with severe consequences.
During last week's press conference revealing that the state would apportion $1,000 bonuses to first responders, the Republican governor vowed to protect police officers and residents from rioting, vandalism, and violence.
"I think if you look around the country, what happens is, like in Portland, these people riot every night," he said. "They go, they get their mug shot, and then they get put right back on the street to do it again. That's what we don't want."
He added, "The minute you harm somebody else or you harm somebody's property, you do those types of things, the only way we're going to put a stop to it is to have very swift penalties for it."
Pointing to areas such as Portland, Oregon, DeSantis added that crime is spiking in areas across America due to a lack of support for police.
"There's a lot of places around this country that have not stood by law enforcement, and the tragedy of it is, you're seeing crime spike in certain parts of our country like we haven't seen in decades," he explained. "The people that are going to be most affected by that are the most vulnerable members of our society."
He also added that he is issuing the statewide bonuses because it is imperative for law enforcement and first responders to function and serve the country as they always have.
"One of the reasons we are here today with the bonuses is because we know just how important that is. It tells people, 'Hey, if you are in Portland and you think you can come down to Florida and do this, stay out of our state!' We don't want you coming down here and causing problems," DeSantis insisted. "If anyone does cause these problems, if you try to burn something down, try harm anybody, but particularly a police officer during one these violent assemblies, there will be consequences. They will be swift and they will be severe. They will be such that people who see that happening will know that's not something that we want to do going forward."Republican Rep. Adam Kinzinger (Ill.) on Sunday compared the current state of the Republican Party to the Titanic, the British ship that infamously sank in 1912.
Kinzinger is a vocal critic of former President Donald Trump and was one of the few Republicans who called for Trump to be removed from office after the deadly Capitol riot on Jan. 6. Kinzinger later voted to impeach Trump.
What did he say?
Speaking on CBS' "Face The Nation," Kinzinger denounced the internal fight over Rep. Liz Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, who is facing a campaign to be unseated from GOP leadership for criticizing Trump and supporting Trump's second impeachment.
"Right now, it's basically the Titanic. We're like, you know, in the middle of this slow sink. We have a band playing on the deck telling everybody it's fine. And meanwhile, as I've said, you know, Donald Trump's running around trying to find women's clothing and get on the first lifeboat," Kinzger said.
"And I think there's a few of us that are just saying, 'Guys, this is not good,' not just for the future of the party, but this is not good for the future of this country," he added.
The problem, Kinzinger explained, is the Republican Party has refused "to have an internal look and a full accounting as to what led to Jan. 6."
"We're four months after Jan. 6, an insurrection, something that was unthinkable in this country. And the message from the people that want to get rid of Liz Cheney is to say, 'It's just time to focus on the future and move on,' like this was 10 years ago and we've been obsessed about it since. It's been four months," Kinzinger said.
"And we have so many people, including our leadership in the party, that has not admitted that this is what it is, which was an insurrection led by the president of the United States, well deserving of a full accounting from Republicans," he continued.
Anything else?
Earlier in the interview, Kinzinger addressed House Minority Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), who has now voiced support for removing Cheney from House GOP leadership.
Kinzinger essentially called McCarthy a hypocrite.
"It's incredible," Kinzinger said. "Liz Cheney is saying exactly what Kevin McCarthy said the day of the insurrection. She's just consistently been saying it. And a few weeks later, Kevin McCarthy changed to attacking other people."
Over the weekend, McCarthy officially endorsed Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) to replace Cheney as the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference. McCarthy claimed Cheney must be removed for the sake of party unity.
"We want to be united in looking, moving forward," he said.Perhaps it's time we advocate for the police to be fully abolished after all.
Once upon a time, we conservatives would have responded to such a proposition by warning about anarchy on the streets, with citizens being attacked randomly by violent criminals and mobs. But now, we are suffering an even worse fate with police officially on duty. Our citizens are being attacked with impunity by Black Lives Matter rioters while driving in random places, including residential neighborhoods. Not only are the police nowhere to be seen in deterring and punishing those who attack motorists, they are actually protecting the illegal checkpoints set up by BLM and targeting those who defend themselves.
If this is the world we now live in, why not abolish the police for real so we can defend ourselves amid the anarchy? At this point, the only function the police are serving is to protect the murderous thugs from peaceful citizens. Joe Hall, a former Marine, learned this lesson the hard way when he was on his way home in a Portland neighborhood and had his path blocked by violent BLM protests. This could have happened to anyone and will continue to victimize innocent Americans, especially if they have conservative bumper stickers on their cars.
Hall was surrounded by a mob of people with long guns, according to the firsthand account he gave to local media. He did what any citizen would do — and took out his own pistol and pointed it at the ground as a warning. However, he hesitated and did not shoot, a decision he later chalked up to fear of prosecution due to the two-tiered justice system. Consequently, he was tackled from behind, lost control of his weapon, and was severely beaten. He was left with five broken ribs, a dislocated shoulder, a broken collar bone, a collapsed lung, and a broken eye socket.
Hall's crime? He reportedly had a Trump sticker on his pickup truck, and that is a violation of the new government-sanctioned BLM street checkpoints, which deserves a beating and being called a Nazi.
As always, Portland police failed to intervene at all despite widespread reports across the city of violent blockades being set up on major roadways by Antifa and BLM, according to KPTV-TV. In an interview with radio host Lars Larson from his hospital bed, Hall said he had to call 911 himself to get an ambulance and police said they were aware of the attacks but did not come out to the scene. Not a single BLM marcher was arrested for blocking traffic, assault, or drawing weapons. "The first question out of them [police] was what did you do to agitate the crowd," said Hall in an emotional interview with Larson.
In other words, police have now become enforcers of the ultimate anarchy. This is why we have police and a government in the first place – to ensure that people enjoy the liberty to travel or walk and drive freely without being attacked. Now the only purpose police serve is to defend the attackers!
Lest you think this is limited to Portland, this is in fact happening all over the country, including in red areas like Plano, Texas. There is a viral video of a man getting out of his car after BLM rioters blocked a major roadway in Plano last week right in front of a policeman. Rather than clearing the illegal checkpoint and arresting every one of the lawbreakers, the cowardly officer donning a face mask outdoors escorted the motorist back to his car to ensure he couldn't clear the checkpoint himself.
In Stillwater, Minnesota, BLM protesters blocked one motorist from reaching his home in his own suburban neighborhood. When the motorists scuffled with the mob, the police arrested the victim and none of the mobsters. Stillwater police chief Brian Mueller told a local reporter that these people had a First Amendment right to be there, even though they were violently blocking a residential street without any prearranged permitting process with police. BLM has the right to beat, loot, and murder with impunity, but we the people have no right to life, liberty, and property, never mind self-defense.
There is an emergency for every red state legislature to immediately pass a bill protecting motorists from liability when defending themselves against the mob and creating mandatory minimums of 10 years in prison for those who attack cars on the road. Florida's Ron DeSantis recently signed a bill doing both of those things to a degree, and several states, such as Iowa and Oklahoma, passed liability protections for motorists.
The more fundamental issue, though, is that the police are not arresting those who block the intersection and are only arresting those who defend themselves. So why do we need the police?
Worse, police are now being used to enforce unconstitutional human rights violations. Garth Gaylord was arrested outside a courthouse in Boise, Idaho, for trying to enter without wearing a mask. He was charged with contempt of court because he was denied the ability to enter his own hearing unless he covered his own breathing. This violates his Fourth and Fifth Amendment rights, but the same police who are nowhere to be seen when BLM beats innocent motorists suddenly enforce these human rights violations with alacrity.
Man Arrested For Not Wearing A Mask www.youtube.com
Then, of course, there is the now horrific image of police in Calgary brutally arresting Pastor Artur Pawlowski for "inciting" people to attend church during lockdown.
Watching this image and observing the uncontrolled spike in violent crime, I can't help thinking that perhaps some of these police officers need some more BLM in their lives after all. Don't count on us to help you out when they come after you. We will "back the blue" when they return to backing the red, white, and blue, along with the constitutional rights represented by those colors.A suspect opened fire at a Colorado birthday party on Sunday, killing at least six people before turning the gun on himself.
What are the details?
The suspect, whom authorities have yet to publicly identify , reportedly opened fire at a Colorado Springs birthday party, killing six adults. Children who were attending the party witnessed the killing spree.
He then was said to have fatally shot himself.
According to a Monday report from the Associated Press, the suspect is believed to have been the boyfriend of a female victim at the party.
The birthday party was for one of the people who was killed, the outlet noted.
Neighbor Yenifer Reyes said that she heard the gunshots and thought they were thunder.
"Then I started hearing sirens," she added.
She also recalled police ushering children who were "crying hysterically" from the home.
Authorities have yet to divulge the identities of the victims at the time of this reporting and stated that a motive was not immediately known.
The investigation is ongoing.
What else?
Colorado Springs Police Chief Vince Niski expressed his condolences in a statement on the incident.
"My heart breaks for the families who have lost someone they love and for the children who have lost their parents," his statement read.
Niski added, "Words fall short to describe the tragedy that took place this morning. As the chief of police, as a husband, as a father, as a grandfather, as a member of this community, my heart breaks for the families who have lost someone they love and for the children who have lost their parents. From the officers who responded to the shooting to the investigators still on scene, we are all left incredibly shaken."
Colorado Gov. Jared Polis (D) also tweeted about the incident, writing, “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of today's tragic act of violence in Colorado Springs."
"The tragic shooting in Colorado Springs is devastating, especially as many of us are spending the day celebrating the women in our lives who have made us the people we are today," he continued. "Multiple lives were taken today by this terrible act of violence. Families torn apart, and at a birthday party no less."
Polis concluded, "My deepest condolences and prayers are with the victims, their families, and everyone else impacted by this tragedy."A veterans' group is threatening to sue New York City if they are not permitted to hold its annual Memorial Day parade. The United Staten Island Veterans' Organization was denied a permit for the parade, and the group is highlighting a double standard. American military service members are barred from marching in a patriotic parade, yet Black Lives Matter protesters were not only allowed, but encouraged, to hold protests throughout the city for the last year.
This year's Memorial Day parade would be the 102nd running of the distinguished procession to celebrate American service members. This year's parade was specifically going to honor Gulf War veterans since it is the conflict's 30th anniversary.
The United Staten Island Veterans' Organization, an association of 16 local veterans' groups that has sponsored the annual event for decades, filed a request for a parade permit with the New York Police Department on Feb. 27, according to Staten Island Live. The vets' group estimated that approximately 1,000 participants would "march down Forest Avenue from Hart Boulevard to Greenleaf Avenue, a 18-block stretch of the leafy commercial street in West Brighton," the New York Post reported. However, the NYPD denied their request to hold the parade.
The Memorial Day parade was denied because of Democratic New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio's executive order signed last year restricting public events due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The United Staten Island Veterans' Organization points out that Black Lives Matter protests, which have at times escalated into violent riots, have been allowed since May 28, 2020, in reaction to the death of George Floyd.
Last June, thousands gathered in June for a black transgender lives rally in Brooklyn.
De Blasio even participated with a group that did not practice social distancing when they painted "Black Lives Matter" on a Manhattan street.
Last July, the far-left de Blasio argued that Black Lives Matter rallies were permitted while other events were not, "This is a historic moment of change. We have to respect that but also say to people the kinds of gatherings we're used to, the parades, the fairs — we just can't have that while we're focusing on health right now."
The United Staten Island Veterans' Organization note that the Big Apple hosted the New York City Cannabis Parade on May 1. About 200 weed enthusiasts marched down Broadway with a giant inflatable marijuana joint. The Cannabis Parade organizers received a permit from the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, and rally spokesman Stu Zakim gloated, "We had a police escort the whole way, they shut traffic down, all that stuff."
The marijuana event was not only allowed by New York City, but also had high-ranking government officials in attendance, including Democratic New York Sen. Chuck Schumer and Attorney General Letitia James.
The United Staten Island Veterans' Organization plans to sue the city over the decision to prohibit veterans from participating in the Memorial Day parade.
"Under the equal protection clause, it's unconstitutional for the city to pick and choose between groups like this," attorney Brendan Lantry, who is working pro bono for the Staten Island vets, said. "There's a clear double standard going on here."
"All we ask for is fairness under the law," John Haynes, CEO of the USIVO, said.
"It's a slap in the face," Jamie Gonzalez, a Marine infantryman who saw combat during Operation Desert Storm, said. "For many of us, a parade is a form of closure. We gather together and support each other."
"I'm incensed," Ted Cohen, an 82-year-old retired Air Force reservist, said. "It's pathetic."
"We have accommodated hundreds of marches, protests and other gatherings even without permits," NYPD Deputy Commissioner John Miller said. "Any group where the event is planned, the NYPD was made aware and it was conducted peacefully has been accommodated."The office of Baltimore City State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby filed a complaint with federal regulators last week asking the government to intervene over press coverage that is not favorable toward Mosby.
What are the details?
In a letter sent to the Federal Communications Commission, Mosby's office claimed WBFF-TV, the Baltimore Fox-affiliate, is guilty of committing "heinous acts and deliberately dangerous activities" by publishing negative stories about Mosby.
Zy Richardson, communications director for Mosby's office, called the coverage "extremely dangerous."
In my capacity at the States Attorney's Office, I have noted that the news coverage of the WBFF persistently follows a disconcerting and dangerous pattern: beginning with a slanted, rigged, misleading, or inflammatory headline; followed by a conspiracy theory; and supported with guest commentary from disgruntled ex-employees or political opponents that lend false credibility to their biased coverage or omission of facts.
...
Most disturbingly, there appears to be an intentional crusade against State's Attorney Mosby, which given today's politically charged and divisive environment, is extremely dangerous.
The letter goes on to complain that WBFF reports on Mosby more than other local Baltimore news stations, and then took shots at Fox News and Tucker Carlson.
"In the public sphere, Fox News is infamous for its bias against people of color, and even more against those who could be deemed 'progressive' people of color. Currently, the Fox national news network airs a nightly show with Tucker Carlson, despite recent calls by civil rights groups to terminate his employment because of Carlson's frequent endorsements of white supremacy views," the letter states.
The letter cites six stories as evidence of "distorted coverage." The stories report on Mosby's policies, crime, and "dark money."
Richardson claimed the WBFF's overall news coverage is a "megaphone that amplifies, encourages, and provides fodder for racists," and claimed Mosby's office respects the First Amendment, but said that WBFF's stories have a "stench of racism."
"We welcome being held accountable, and we support First Amendment freedom of speech. However, what we find troubling, abhorrent, and outright dangerous, is that the distinctly relentless slanted broadcast news campaign, against the Baltimore City State's Attorney's Office and its lead prosecutor, has the stench of racism," the letter states.
Richardson concluded the letter by claiming if WBFF is "not curtailed and ceased," then "someone is going to get hurt."
"I implore and encourage you, Madame Chairwoman [Jessica Rosenworcel] and Commissioners, to enlist the full investigative and enforcement powers granted to you by the Federal government to take action against the WBFF as soon as possible," Richardson wrote.
What was the response?
Billy Robbins, vice president and general manager of WBFF, said the news station stands by its coverage.
"WBFF is committed to journalism in the public interest with its award-winning investigative unit being a key part of delivering on that commitment," Robbins said. "While we understand that it's not popular with the individuals and institutions upon which we are shining a light, we stand by our reporting."
Richard Vatz, who taught media criticism at Towson University, told WBFF the letter "is one of the clearest, most despicable examples of intimidation."
"It's clearly an abuse of power," Vatz said.
The Media Institute, a nonpartisan First Amendment advocacy organization, similarly denounced the letter.
"This matter is especially egregious because the television station holds a broadcast license issued by the FCC. It is obvious that freedom of the press would cease to be a reality for local broadcasters if every government official who received coverage perceived as unfavorable exerted a chilling effect on local TV news coverage by calling for an FCC investigation that could (if even remotely) imperil a station's broadcast license," the group said in a statement.