A day set aside to honor the sacrifices of the nation’s veterans, Memorial Day 2021 was especially poignant a year after many memorial ceremonies — and many family trips and barbecues — were curtailed because of the coronavirus pandemic. Parades that had been canceled in 2020 were back in 2021. Services held online last year resumed in person this year. Holiday traffic returned, as did beach outings — at least in parts of the country not cursed with cold, rainy weather.
President Biden honored the fallen at Arlington National Cemetery, delivering an emotional speech under a blue, sunlit sky just a day after the five-year anniversary of the death of his son Beau, who had served in Iraq. “It can hurt to remember, but the hurt is how we feel, and how we heal,” Mr. Biden said after placing a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. He called on Americans to keep the fallen members of the military in their minds. “We’re free because they were brave,” he said.The program authorized payments to the members of the generation closest to the original workers, calling them “shareholders.” If that generation includes people who have died, the payments would go to their children. And if that person had no children, the money would be split among the siblings of the eldest generation.
The Rev. Joseph Thompson, the seminary’s director of multicultural ministries, remembers the day that Mr. Markham walked into his office and asked what he thought about creating a reparations program.
“This is one of those things I never thought I would see in my lifetime — a serious, a kind of broad conversation about reparations in the United States of America,” he said. “That was a very striking moment for me.”
Image John Samuel Thomas Jr., worked at the seminary after World War I as a janitor, and most likely also as a laborer on the seminary’s farm. His granddaughter, Linda J. Thomas, was the first woman to receive a $2,100 payment from the seminary. Credit... Linda J. Thomas
The seminary’s leaders acknowledge that the particulars of who will receive money, and how much, could be complicated. Take the case of Mr. Dowling. While he was Black, his grandchildren identified themselves on official records as white, and so have their descendants.
Maddy McCoy, a genealogist working with the seminary to find the descendants of enslaved individuals, said that while such situations have presented difficult questions, the seminary had tackled them head on.
“There is no manual that we are referring to as we move through this,” Ms. McCoy said. “With that, it’s going to be a lot of ups and downs and a lot of really, really difficult decisions and difficult conversations, but that’s what this work is.”While people around the world are increasingly reliant on air-conditioning, which could be holding down death rates while contributing to the emissions that heat the planet, climate change is also disrupting power grids, with failures increasing by 60 percent since 2015 in the United States alone. That means that the crutch of air conditioning could become less reliable over time.
Ana Maria Vicedo-Cabrera, the lead author of the new paper and a researcher at the Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine at the University of Bern in Switzerland, said that the study showed that climate change was not just a problem for the future. “We are thinking about these problems of climate change as something that the next generation will face,” she said. “It’s something we are facing already. We are throwing stones at ourselves.”
The future looks even more grim, she added. “This burden will amplify,” she said. “Really, we need to do something.”
Dr. Ebi agreed. “Climate change is already affecting our health,” she said, noting that “essentially, all heat-related deaths are preventable.” Much depends on decisions, she said; communities must adapt to heat through measures like cooling centers and heat action plans to help those most vulnerable. She added, “In the long term, there are lots of choices that will affect our future vulnerability, including reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.”
Because the scientists were unable to gather reliable data in some parts of the world, including parts of Africa and South Asia, Dr. Vicedo-Cabrera was reluctant to say that the mortality average the researchers found could be applied worldwide. “This estimate that we obtained cannot be applied to areas that we did not assess.”WASHINGTON — Six days after his inauguration, President Biden vowed that his administration would see everything through the lens of racial equality, making it “the business of the whole of government.”
On Friday, his $6 trillion budget began to make good on that promise.
Sprinkled throughout the president’s enormous spending plan are scores of programs amounting to tens of billions of dollars intended to specifically bolster the fortunes of Black people, Asian people, tribal communities and other historically underserved groups in the United States.
Mr. Biden is not the first president to spend money on such programs. And civil rights advocates said the budget released on Friday fell short in some critical areas like student loans, where they say even more money is needed to rectify a longstanding lack of fairness and a lopsided burden being carried by minorities.
“It’s going in the right direction, but it’s not a perfect document,” said Derrick Johnson, the president of the N.A.A.C.P., who said he was disappointed that the president’s budget did not call for canceling student loan debt, which falls disproportionately on Black Americans.Ms. Zou, who found out she was pregnant after breaking up with her boyfriend, said she would continue fighting for recognition even though she did not need the money.
“This is about the right to choose,” she said. Currently, when an unmarried woman gets pregnant, “you can either get married or have an abortion. Why not give people the right of a third choice?”
As education levels have risen in recent years, more Chinese women have rejected marriage, childbirth or both. Only 8.1 million couples got married in 2020, according to government statistics, the lowest number since 2003.
With the rejection of marriage has come heightened acknowledgment of single mothers. There are no official statistics on single mothers, but a 2018 report by the state-backed All-China Women’s Federation estimated there would be at least 19.4 million single mothers in 2020. The figure included widowed and divorced women.
When Zhang A Lan, a 30-year-old filmmaker in central Hebei Province, was growing up, unmarried mothers were seen as sullied and sinful, she said. But by the time she decided two years ago to give birth without getting married, it was common to see people on social media challenging those old stereotypes.
“Marriage is obviously not a prerequisite for childbirth,” said Ms. Zhang, who gave birth to a boy last year.With pressure growing from the Biden administration, two Native American tribes in Oklahoma have agreed to consider reversing their policies of denying citizenship to descendants of Black people who were enslaved by them before the Civil War.
The tribes, the Choctaw Nation and Muscogee (Creek) Nation, said they would take initial steps to address the long-running demands of the descendants that they be granted equal rights as tribal citizens, an issue that has split their communities and highlighted clashes over identity and racism among Native Americans.
But the two tribes stopped short of a commitment to grant citizenship to the Black descendants, who are known as Freedmen, instead saying they would open discussions about the issue. In February, the Cherokee Nation eliminated from its constitution language that based citizenship on being descended from “by blood” tribal members listed on a federal census, the biggest step by a tribe so far to resolve the issue.
Those tribes and others, which had originally inhabited the Southeast, purchased enslaved Black people as laborers in the 18th and 19th centuries, and had brought them along when they were forcibly relocated by the federal government in a deadly ordeal known as the “Trail of Tears.”Commencement speeches can bleed together. Adversity: overcome. Mountains: climbed. Friendships: lifelong.
But this year, as esteemed speakers across the country noted, graduation really is a victory.
“Surviving means that you have come through the catastrophe but you’re still relatively intact,” the basketball legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar told graduates at Washington University in St. Louis. “Thriving is about learning and growing as a result of the event. That’s what graduations are all about.”
The pandemic, ever-present, did not derail plans. Some schools held virtual commencements, while others only allowed the students themselves to attend in person. Instead of one commencement speaker, some schools invited several people to offer advice to graduates. A few staggered ceremonies to make room for social distancing, prompting some college presidents to go ahead and do the deed themselves.
“I couldn’t ask a guest speaker to speak 28 times,” joked Kent Fuchs, the president of the University of Florida.“If diverse groups of student editors perform better than non-diverse groups, it lends credibility to the idea that diverse student bodies, diverse student organizations, diverse faculties, diverse teams of attorneys and diverse teams of employees generally could perform better than non-diverse teams,” the study concluded.
The law reviews’ diversity policies were not uniform, but they tended to take account of race, as the Harvard College admissions policy does, as one factor among many for some or all of the available spots. The Harvard Law Review, for instance, selects 30 of its 48 editors based on some combination of a writing competition and grades. Another 18 editors, a statement on its website says, are “selected through a holistic but anonymous review” that may consider “racial or ethnic identity, disability status, gender identity, sexual orientation and socioeconomic status.”
The policy and a similar one adopted by The New York University Law Review (where 12 student editors, its website says, are “selected by the diversity committee”) were the subject of lawsuits challenging them as discriminatory. In the Harvard suit, unnamed scholars complained that their submissions would be “judged by less capable students — and these are the students who will ultimately make the career-altering decision of whether a professor’s article gets accepted for publication or rejected.”
The suits were dismissed on standing grounds, but the charge that diverse student editors are less skilled is not new. When Barack Obama was running for president in 2008, Politico reported on a “a small dust-up in the blogosphere” about his tenure as the first Black president of The Harvard Law Review. Critics said that articles Mr. Obama helped edit were part of “the least-cited volume of The Harvard Law Review in the last 20 years,” Politico reported.
There were methodological problems with the claim; it did not take account of all the issues Mr. Obama oversaw and overstated his role in the process of selecting articles. But the general idea of assessing the effect of scholarly articles by counting how often they are cited is widely accepted, said Adam Chilton, a law professor at the University of Chicago who conducted the new study along with Professor Masur; Justin Driver, a law professor at Yale; and Kyle Rozema, a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis.
“On average, citations — once you account for field a little bit and subject a little bit — provide a pretty accurate measure of impact within the academy,” Professor Chilton said. “It’s considered in hiring and promotion decisions. It’s certainly something academics themselves think about. Law review editors are all aware that they want their volumes to be cited and worry when making article selection decisions whether the topic will be general enough to be widely cited.”
The study considered about 13,000 research articles and found that median citations to volumes published in the five years after the adoptions of diversity programs grew by about 23 percent, which was statistically significant.GUERNSEY, Wyo. — It was a few days before New Year’s Eve 2019, and Terri VanDam, the chief of Guernsey, Wyo.’s three-person Police Department, had run out of options.
For more than a year, Ms. VanDam and her sergeant, Misty Clevenger, had tried and failed to get to the bottom of the drug and alcohol problem in Guernsey, population 1,124. Methamphetamine use was rampant, and much of it was bought and sold right at the bars, they were told, but when anyone tried to investigate, they ran into a wall of silence that went right up to City Hall.
Not long after she had first started asking questions, she said, she had found a dead bird on her front porch, with a nail driven through it. Now, as chief, she had opened a full-scale investigation, and two townspeople warned that they had overheard the mayor talk about crippling the Police Department.
Not knowing where else to turn, Ms. VanDam reached out to the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation, asking for a team of state investigators to come into Guernsey and help turn her suspicions into a case.The program authorized payments to the members of the generation closest to the original workers, calling them “shareholders.” If that generation includes people who have died, the payments would go to their children. And if that person had no children, the money would be split among the siblings of the eldest generation.
The Rev. Joseph Thompson, the seminary’s director of multicultural ministries, remembers the day that Mr. Markham walked into his office and asked what he thought about creating a reparations program.
“This is one of those things I never thought I would see in my lifetime — a serious, a kind of broad conversation about reparations in the United States of America,” he said. “That was a very striking moment for me.”
Image John Samuel Thomas Jr., worked at the seminary after World War I as a janitor, and most likely also as a laborer on the seminary’s farm. His granddaughter, Linda J. Thomas, was the first woman to receive a $2,100 payment from the seminary. Credit... Linda J. Thomas
The seminary’s leaders acknowledge that the particulars of who will receive money, and how much, could be complicated. Take the case of Mr. Dowling. While he was Black, his grandchildren identified themselves on official records as white, and so have their descendants.
Maddy McCoy, a genealogist working with the seminary to find the descendants of enslaved individuals, said that while such situations have presented difficult questions, the seminary had tackled them head on.
“There is no manual that we are referring to as we move through this,” Ms. McCoy said. “With that, it’s going to be a lot of ups and downs and a lot of really, really difficult decisions and difficult conversations, but that’s what this work is.”The music should be pumping and the burgers and jerk chicken wings flying out of the kitchen this holiday weekend at the Rambler Kitchen and Tap in the North Center neighborhood of Chicago.
To wash it down, patrons might go with a mixed drink or one of the 20 craft beers the bar sells. But many will order a hard seltzer. The Rambler expects to sell close to 500 cans in flavors like peach, pineapple and grapefruit pomelo.
“We’ll sell a lot of buckets of White Claw and Truly seltzers,” said Sam Stone, a co-owner of the Rambler. “It’s going to be a big summer for hard seltzer.”
The Memorial Day weekend kicks off what many hope will be a more normal summer, when kids start counting down the number of days left in school, people head back to the beach and grills heat up for backyard parties that went poof last year because of the pandemic. And for the hard seltzer industry, it’s the start of a dizzying period when dozens of old and new competitors vie to be the boozy, bubbly drink of the season.Births in China have fallen for four consecutive years, including in 2020, when the number of babies born dropped to the lowest since the Mao era. The country’s total fertility rate — an estimate of the number of children born over a woman’s lifetime — now stands at 1.3, well below the replacement rate of 2.1, raising the possibility of a shrinking population over time.
The announcement on Monday still splits the difference between individual reproductive rights and government limits over women’s bodies. Prominent voices within China have called on the party to scrap its restrictions on births altogether. But Beijing, under Xi Jinping, the party leader who has pushed for greater control in the daily lives of the country’s 1.4 billion people, has resisted.
“Opening it up to three children is far from enough,” said Huang Wenzheng, a demography expert with the Center for China and Globalization, a Beijing-based research center. “It should be fully liberalized, and giving birth should be strongly encouraged.”
“This should be regarded as a crisis for the survival of the Chinese nation, even beyond the pandemic and other environmental issues,” Mr. Huang added. “There should never have been a birth restriction policy in the first place. So it’s not a question of whether this is too late.”
The party made the announcement after a meeting by the Politburo, a top decision-making body, though it was not immediately clear when the change would take effect. In an acknowledgment that raising the birth limits might not be enough, the party also pledged to beef up support for families, though it did not provide details.During debate late Sunday, State Representative Travis Clardy, a Republican, acknowledged that advancing the bill through the conference committee had proved to be a lengthy process, but he defended the panel’s methods.
“A lot of this was done late, I don’t get to control the clock,” Mr. Clardy said. “But I can assure you that the members of the committee did their absolute best, dead-level best, to make sure we’ve provided information to all members, including representative rows. And then we did everything that we could to make sure this was transparent.”
The effort in Texas, a major state with a booming population, represents the apex of the national Republican push to install tall new barriers to voting after President Donald J. Trump’s loss last year to Joseph R. Biden Jr., with expansive restrictions already becoming law in Iowa, Georgia and Florida in 2021. Fueled by Mr. Trump’s false claims of widespread fraud in the election, Republicans have passed the bills almost entirely along partisan lines, brushing off the protestations of Democrats, civil rights groups, voting rights groups, major corporations and faith leaders.
But the party’s setback in Texas is unlikely to calm Democratic pressure in Washington to pass new federal voting laws. President Biden and key Democrats in Congress are confronting rising calls from their party to do whatever is needed — including abolishing the Senate filibuster, which moderate senators have resisted — to push through a major voting rights and elections overhaul that would counteract the wave of Republican laws.
After the Texas bill became public on Saturday, Mr. Biden denounced it, along with similar measures in Georgia and Florida, as “an assault on democracy,” blasting the moves in a statement as “disproportionately targeting Black and Brown Americans.”
The Battle Over Voting Rights Amid months of false claims by former President Donald J. Trump that the 2020 election was stolen from him, Republican lawmakers in many states are marching ahead to pass laws making it harder to vote and changing how elections are run, frustrating Democrats and even some election officials in their own party. A Key Topic : The rules and procedures of elections have become a central issue in American politics. The Brennan Center for Justice, a liberal-leaning law and justice institute at New York University, counts 361 bills in 47 states that seek to tighten voting rules. At the same time, 843 bills have been introduced with provisions to improve access to voting. The Basic Measures: The restrictions vary by state but can include limiting the use of ballot drop boxes, adding identification requirements for voters requesting absentee ballots, and doing away with local laws that allow automatic registration for absentee voting. More Extreme Measures: Some measures go beyond altering how one votes, including tweaking Electoral College and judicial election rules, clamping down on citizen-led ballot initiatives, and outlawing private donations that provide resources for administering elections. Pushback: This Republican effort has led Democrats in Congress to find a way to pass federal voting laws. A sweeping voting rights bill passed the House in March, but faces difficult obstacles in the Senate. Republicans have remained united against the proposal and even if the bill became law, it would likely face steep legal challenges. Florida: Measures here include limiting the use of drop boxes, adding more identification requirements for absentee ballots, requiring voters to request an absentee ballot for each election, limiting who could collect and drop off ballots, and further empowering partisan observers during the ballot-counting process. Texas: The next big move could happen here, where Republicans in the legislature are brushing aside objections from corporate titans and moving on a vast election bill that would be among the most severe in the nation. It would impose new restrictions on early voting, ban drive-through voting, threaten election officials with harsher penalties and greatly empower partisan poll watchers. Other States: Arizona’s Republican-controlled Legislature passed a bill that would limit the distribution of mail ballots. The bill, which includes removing voters from the state’s Permanent Early Voting List if they do not cast a ballot at least once every two years, may be only the first in a series of voting restrictions to be enacted there. Georgia Republicans in March enacted far-reaching new voting laws that limit ballot drop-boxes and make the distribution of water within certain boundaries of a polling station a misdemeanor. Iowa has also imposed new limits, including reducing the period for early voting and in-person voting hours on Election Day. And bills to restrict voting have been moving through the Republican-led Legislature in Michigan.
He urged Congress to pass Democrats’ voting bills, the most ambitious of which, the For the People Act, would expand access to the ballot, reduce the role of money in politics, strengthen enforcement of existing election laws and limit gerrymandering. Another measure, the narrower John Lewis Voting Rights Act, would restore crucial parts of the 1965 Voting Rights Act that were struck down by the Supreme Court in 2013, including the requirement that some states receive federal approval before changing their election laws.Privacy advocates like Ms. Ram have been worried about genetic genealogy since 2018, when it was used to great fanfare to reveal the identity of the Golden State Killer, who murdered 13 people and raped dozens of women in the 1970s and ’80s. After matching the killer’s DNA to entries in two large genealogy databases, GEDmatch and FamilyTreeDNA, investigators in California identified some of the culprit’s cousins, and then spent months building his family tree to deduce his name — Joseph James DeAngelo Jr. — and arrest him.
Ms. Ram subsequently published an article in a law journal calling on Maryland lawmakers to act against the practice. Granting police access to a suspect’s genome, she argued, including markers of sensitive health information, was akin to an unreasonable search, which is banned by the Fourth Amendment. In 2019, she testified to a state House committee after a delegate, Charles Sydnor, who is now a state senator, introduced legislation that would have banned the method outright.
The ban did not pass. But it prompted discussions with legal experts, public defenders, prosecutors and police officers that led to a compromise bill, which passed unanimously this term in the state House and Senate.
“This bill strikes a balance between this very important technology to identify people that do the very worst things to our Marylanders, yet it balances that against the privacy concerns and the trust that we need from the public,” John Fitzgerald, the chief of the Chevy Chase Village Police Department, testified to the Maryland House Judiciary Committee in February.
But some experts said that the law could put a damper on the technology’s use in Maryland. For one thing, the law states that by 2024, genealogists working on such cases must be professionally certified — a credential that does not yet exist.ANGLE INLET, Minn. — On the Northwest Angle, a small patch of Minnesota connected to the rest of the United States only by water, it feels like the coronavirus shutdown never ended.
But the empty cabins, boatless marinas and out-of-work fishing guides are not the result of some lockdown imposed by Minnesota’s governor. Nor do they indicate an acute fear of the virus. (Many residents are already vaccinated, and pretty much nobody wears a mask.) Instead, in the second walleye season of the pandemic, American businesses on the Angle remain largely cut off from their American customers because of a geographical quirk, a foreign government and a gravel road through Manitoba.
“It starts to feel very oppressive,” said Lisa Goulet, who along with her husband, Jason, owns Angle Outpost Resort, where there were no customers early last week. “I don’t know if I want to live like this. I don’t know if it’s really worth it.”NEW DELHI — The Indian capital, which just weeks ago suffered the devastating force of the coronavirus, with tens of thousands of new infections daily and funeral pyres that burned day and night, is taking its first steps back toward normalcy.
Officials on Monday reopened manufacturing and construction activity, allowing workers in those industries to return to their jobs after six weeks of staying at home to avoid infection. The move came after a sharp drop in new infections, at least by the official numbers, and as hospital wards emptied and the strain on medicine and supplies has eased.
Life on the streets of Delhi is not expected to return to normal immediately. Schools and most businesses are still closed. The Delhi Metro system, which reopened after last year’s nationwide lockdown, has suspended service again.
But the city government’s easing of restrictions will allow people like Ram Niwas Gupta and his employees to begin returning to work — and, more broadly, to start to repair India’s ailing, pandemic-struck economy. Mr. Gupta, a construction company owner, must replace the migrant workers who fled Delhi when a second wave of the coronavirus struck in April, but he was confident that business would return to normal soon.During debate late Sunday, State Representative Travis Clardy, a Republican, acknowledged that advancing the bill through the conference committee had proved to be a lengthy process, but he defended the panel’s methods.
“A lot of this was done late, I don’t get to control the clock,” Mr. Clardy said. “But I can assure you that the members of the committee did their absolute best, dead-level best, to make sure we’ve provided information to all members, including representative rows. And then we did everything that we could to make sure this was transparent.”
The effort in Texas, a major state with a booming population, represents the apex of the national Republican push to install tall new barriers to voting after President Donald J. Trump’s loss last year to Joseph R. Biden Jr., with expansive restrictions already becoming law in Iowa, Georgia and Florida in 2021. Fueled by Mr. Trump’s false claims of widespread fraud in the election, Republicans have passed the bills almost entirely along partisan lines, brushing off the protestations of Democrats, civil rights groups, voting rights groups, major corporations and faith leaders.
But the party’s setback in Texas is unlikely to calm Democratic pressure in Washington to pass new federal voting laws. President Biden and key Democrats in Congress are confronting rising calls from their party to do whatever is needed — including abolishing the Senate filibuster, which moderate senators have resisted — to push through a major voting rights and elections overhaul that would counteract the wave of Republican laws.
After the Texas bill became public on Saturday, Mr. Biden denounced it, along with similar measures in Georgia and Florida, as “an assault on democracy,” blasting the moves in a statement as “disproportionately targeting Black and Brown Americans.”
The Battle Over Voting Rights Amid months of false claims by former President Donald J. Trump that the 2020 election was stolen from him, Republican lawmakers in many states are marching ahead to pass laws making it harder to vote and changing how elections are run, frustrating Democrats and even some election officials in their own party. A Key Topic : The rules and procedures of elections have become a central issue in American politics. The Brennan Center for Justice, a liberal-leaning law and justice institute at New York University, counts 361 bills in 47 states that seek to tighten voting rules. At the same time, 843 bills have been introduced with provisions to improve access to voting. The Basic Measures: The restrictions vary by state but can include limiting the use of ballot drop boxes, adding identification requirements for voters requesting absentee ballots, and doing away with local laws that allow automatic registration for absentee voting. More Extreme Measures: Some measures go beyond altering how one votes, including tweaking Electoral College and judicial election rules, clamping down on citizen-led ballot initiatives, and outlawing private donations that provide resources for administering elections. Pushback: This Republican effort has led Democrats in Congress to find a way to pass federal voting laws. A sweeping voting rights bill passed the House in March, but faces difficult obstacles in the Senate. Republicans have remained united against the proposal and even if the bill became law, it would likely face steep legal challenges. Florida: Measures here include limiting the use of drop boxes, adding more identification requirements for absentee ballots, requiring voters to request an absentee ballot for each election, limiting who could collect and drop off ballots, and further empowering partisan observers during the ballot-counting process. Texas: The next big move could happen here, where Republicans in the legislature are brushing aside objections from corporate titans and moving on a vast election bill that would be among the most severe in the nation. It would impose new restrictions on early voting, ban drive-through voting, threaten election officials with harsher penalties and greatly empower partisan poll watchers. Other States: Arizona’s Republican-controlled Legislature passed a bill that would limit the distribution of mail ballots. The bill, which includes removing voters from the state’s Permanent Early Voting List if they do not cast a ballot at least once every two years, may be only the first in a series of voting restrictions to be enacted there. Georgia Republicans in March enacted far-reaching new voting laws that limit ballot drop-boxes and make the distribution of water within certain boundaries of a polling station a misdemeanor. Iowa has also imposed new limits, including reducing the period for early voting and in-person voting hours on Election Day. And bills to restrict voting have been moving through the Republican-led Legislature in Michigan.
He urged Congress to pass Democrats’ voting bills, the most ambitious of which, the For the People Act, would expand access to the ballot, reduce the role of money in politics, strengthen enforcement of existing election laws and limit gerrymandering. Another measure, the narrower John Lewis Voting Rights Act, would restore crucial parts of the 1965 Voting Rights Act that were struck down by the Supreme Court in 2013, including the requirement that some states receive federal approval before changing their election laws.But her increasing absorption in the QAnon community was by that time pushing some of her closest friends away.
“I care about you, but I think it would be best if we didn’t talk for a while,” one friend since childhood, Sydney Vinson, texted her on Oct. 3 after Ms. Boyland had sent her a long text message and screenshots about purported government manipulation of the news media. “Please don’t send me any more political stuff.”
Ms. Boyland was the middle of three sisters, growing up in Kennesaw, Ga., a city of 34,000 people about 25 miles northwest of Atlanta. She and her sisters were close as children, and her younger sister said she had been inspired by Ms. Boyland’s assertiveness and confidence. Even then, she had a penchant for conspiracy theories, her sisters said, but harmless ones, like the existence of extraterrestrials or of Bigfoot.
But when she was about 16, her life took a turn when she began dating an abusive boyfriend, her sisters said. She would blame black eyes on soccer practice and once came home with an unexplained shoulder injury. Around that time, she also got hooked on opioids.
She eventually dropped out of high school, and her relationship with her family became strained. In 2009, when she was 23, she was charged with felony drug possession. Several other cases would follow, the most recent in April 2013, after which she was given five years of probation. It was only in July 2014, when she learned about the pregnancy of her older sister, Ms. Cave, that she pledged to be a better role model for her niece, her sisters said — and from that moment on, with a few brief relapses, she was largely sober.
“She was always talking about how she couldn’t wait to be the aunt that was the cool aunt,” said Ms. Cave, who gave birth to her first daughter in March 2015. She now has two daughters, 5 and 6.
Ms. Boyland grew close to both of them, often picking them up from school and documenting milestones in their lives. She spent much of her time going to group meetings and counseling other people who were struggling with drugs. At one point, she hoped to become a counselor herself.After more than a year of pandemic restrictions, many Americans are leaving their masks behind, making summer travel plans and joyously reuniting with family and friends. As more are vaccinated and new infections plummet, there is a sense that the worst of the pandemic is over in the United States.
But for people like Michele Preissler, 60, the worst has just begun.
Ms. Preissler lost her husband to Covid-19 in late May, just as many restrictions were being lifted and life, for many, was starting to look more like normal. Customers were going without masks last week at the Walmart near her home in Pasadena, Md., where she was shopping for items for her husband’s funeral.
“Everybody is saying, ‘Oh, it’s fine,’” said Ms. Preissler, whose husband, Darryl Preissler, 63, loved to hunt, camp and go crabbing with his grandson. “I’m just thinking to myself, ‘If you only knew what I just went through.’”
With half of Americans protected with at least one dose of a vaccine, the virus outlook in this country is the best it has been at any point in the pandemic. New cases, hospitalizations and deaths are lower than they have been in many months, and even the most cautious health officials are celebrating the country’s progress. Fully vaccinated people, who are at low risk of catching and spreading the virus, have been told they can take off their masks and return to many regular activities, with the support of top scientists.Picture this predicament, described by our climate reporter Lisa Friedman in her latest article as “a paradox worthy of Kafka”: In order to break through the earth and tap the oil in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, ConocoPhillips must install “chillers” into the thawing permafrost.
And why is it thawing in the first place? Because of global warming, brought on by burning the very sort of fossil fuels that ConocoPhillips is extracting.
With Joe Biden’s election in November, environmental advocates had hoped that such drilling on U.S. soil might become a thing of the past. But as Lisa documents in her article, ConocoPhillips’s work in Alaska is just one of several drilling and pipeline projects that Biden’s administration has recently gotten behind. Rather than turn back the Trump administration’s support for fossil fuels, Biden is in some cases defending it.
The reasons are complicated — and have a lot to do with the tricky politics of governance while Democrats have only the narrowest control of Congress. To help us understand what’s been going on, and what the consequences might be for the environment, I caught up with Lisa today. Here’s what she told me.Before her brother’s death, Crutcher’s life was not necessarily leading to one of social-justice activism. But after his family buried Terence, they decided they needed to fight for the justice he did not receive. “We still marched,” Crutcher says. “We still took it to the streets. We still prayed, you know? We praised the Lord, and Reverend Al came in,” she says, referring to Al Sharpton. The march on Sept. 27, 2016, was one of the largest ever in Tulsa. For a while, after Shelby’s indictment, Crutcher says, “we were moving in the right direction.” Because officials had released the video publicly, because they were trying to be transparent, because the police chief had said that justice would be achieved, because the mayor-elect had said he would make it his mission to seek justice for the Crutchers, she says, “I thought that we would do the right thing here in Tulsa.”
But Shelby was acquitted on May 17, 2017. When the judge announced the jury’s verdict, “I went numb,” Crutcher says. The family’s attorneys and the assistant district attorney who prosecuted Shelby had tears in their eyes. After leaving the courtroom, her mother waited until they were in an elevator before crying out, “She killed my baby!” Crutcher’s father rallied them to prayer.
Afterward, it was time to address the news media. “I finally mustered up enough, I guess, strength to make a statement,” Crutcher says. “That’s when I made a vow and a promise that I wouldn’t rest until I transformed Tulsa’s corrupt policing department. And until I receive justice, I said, it’s not over.” She told reporters that day, “Terence Crutcher’s name is going to be that name that opens change.” At another news conference that summer, Crutcher announced the creation of the Terence Crutcher Foundation. In the words of its mission statement, the organization would “change the narrative that perceived Black men as BAD DUDES and pipeline them into a ‘community of achievers.’”
She had started with hopes that justice would follow her brother’s killing. But it was in the dashing of those hopes that, Crutcher says, her “journey to justice” began. “We in Tulsa, Okla., aren’t going to sit by and say, ‘It is what it is,’” she said at one of the news conferences. The very narrative Crutcher has committed herself to undoing — one that says Black people are inherently bad people — is one that goes back a hundred years in her hometown, when one part of the community destroyed another part of the community, a place whose prosperity and potential belonged to, but was taken from, her ancestors.
Crutcher’s childhood revolved around the institution that anchors life for many of Tulsa’s Black residents: the church. Her father, the Rev. Joey Hobart Lewis Crutcher, would play the organ and piano at congregations around the city and the country, but mainly at the New Heights Christian Center; her mother, Leanna Crutcher, directed choirs and also played the piano. Crutcher recalls always being “in spaces where there were white kids and Black kids.” She remembers they “just flowed together — we were pretty close. I had white kids, or classmates, that came to my house and played and spent the night, and I went to their houses.”
As a student at Langston University, Oklahoma’s lone historically Black college, in the 1990s, Crutcher met other Black students from all over the country. “Oh, wow, Black Wall Street,” they often said when they heard she was from Tulsa. They knew the name of the part of town where Black people began settling in the early 20th century, what became variously known as Black or Negro Wall Street — terms given to several prosperous Black communities across America — as well as Greenwood, Black Tulsa and Little Africa. Some students also mentioned the Tulsa race riot. Crutcher had never heard of any such riot. It was not something that had been discussed at home. But after hearing constant references from schoolmates who had often never been to Tulsa, she finally pressed her father for answers during breaks from school.
In 1921, he told her reluctantly, after prolonged prodding, that the neighborhood that stood where Tiffany grew up, a thriving Black community, had been destroyed by a mob of white Tulsans. He told Tiffany that buildings had been leveled and people killed or forced to flee. And the destruction in lives and property was more than just history; it was personal. His own grandmother, her great-grandmother, Rebecca Brown Crutcher, had to run away out of fear for her life. Crutcher was filled with regret when she heard this. “I didn’t get a chance to ask her questions,” she says, because she was so young when Mama Brown passed away. Her father told her that he didn’t know about what had happened to Black Tulsa until he was not much older than she was then, when he returned from the Vietnam War. Crutcher learned that her father’s own discovery of the family’s history also came with a warning — a deep fear that it would happen again. For Black Tulsans, consciously recalling the pain came with risk. The white rioters, Crutcher told me, “scared them so bad and told them if they ever talked about it again, that they would either be lynched or that it would happen again.”The global economy is expected to recover from the coronavirus pandemic faster than expected this year, as vaccinations in advanced economies and an enormous fiscal stimulus package in the United States unleash pent-up business activity and job creation, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on Monday.
But the pace of the recovery still hinges on vaccination programs and the ability of governments to beat back new variants of the virus, raising fresh risks even as economic activity starts to rev back up in most parts of the world, the organization said in its latest economic outlook.
The organization sharply raised its forecast for global growth to 5.8 percent in 2021, up from a 4.2 percent projection in December. It said the pace of expansion would cool to 4.5 percent in 2022 as government support programs unwind.
A government stimulus-led upturn in the United States, where President Biden is betting on a $2 trillion infrastructure package to end the effects of the pandemic faster, has helped improve the global outlook, the group said. China continues to experience the world’s strongest rebound, also lifting the global outlook.By the time Donald J. Trump was in the White House in January 2017, “The D.N.C.’s house was ablaze,” Sam Cornale, the committee’s executive director, said in an interview this week.
That month, Bob Lord, an unassuming, bespectacled chief security officer at Yahoo, was still mopping up the largest Russian hacks in history: a 2013 breach of more than three billion Yahoo accounts and a second breach in 2014 of 500 million Yahoo accounts. Mr. Lord, who discovered the breaches when he took over the job, helped the Federal Bureau of Investigation identify the assailants. A courtroom sketch of Karim Baratov, one of the hackers in the Yahoo case, still hangs on his wall.
Mr. Lord left the team Yahoo affectionately calls “The Paranoids,” took a six-figure pay cut and headed to Washington in January 2017 to become the D.N.C.’s first chief information security officer.
The way he saw it, the D.N.C.’s 2016 breach wasn’t so much a cybersecurity issue as it was a problem of workflow and corporate culture.
Mr. Podesta’s aide, for instance, had asked a staff member to vet whether the infamous Russian spearphishing email was safe, and the aide responded that the email was “legitimate.” It was a typo; he later said he had meant to write “illegitimate.” By the time anyone realized what was happening, Mr. Podesta’s risotto recipes, and excerpts from Mrs. Clinton’s Wall Street speeches, were being dissected online by the news media and conspiracy theorists.Some villagers in Gurdere praised him for improvements such as universal health care, support for pensioners and road building that has cut down travel time to cities.
“If someone is sick, they just call an ambulance,” said Cevat Tuncer, 75. “We should be thankful.”
But the loyalty of one of his neighbors was wavering.
Overlooking the valley where the quarry is planned, Cevat Tat has just built a home for his retirement after 17 years working as a construction planner for Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party in Istanbul. Now he is contemplating life with daily explosions shaking his home and thick dust settling on his fruit trees.
When government officials and the construction company promised to restore the land to its original state after extracting hundreds of tons of basalt from the mountainside, he went to have a look at a four-year old quarry in the nearby village of Pazar. He was appalled to see the valley gutted and devoid of vegetation.
“My heart broke,” he said, looking out over the deep green hills. “It was a valley like this one and they ruined that.”BANGKOK — Bobby was a good boy. So was Bravo.
Angel was a good girl, and when she sat, furry hindquarters sliding a little on the tile floor, she raised a paw for emphasis, as if to say, It’s this cotton ball that my keen nose has identified, the one that smells like Covid-19.
The three Labradors, operating out of a university clinic in Bangkok, are part of a global corps of dogs being trained to sniff out Covid-19 in people. Preliminary studies, conducted in multiple countries, suggest that their detection rate may surpass that of the rapid antigen testing often used in airports and other public places.
“For dogs, the smell is obvious, just like grilled meat for us,” said Dr. Kaywalee Chatdarong, deputy dean of research and innovation for the faculty of veterinary science at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok.
The hope is that dogs can be deployed in crowded public spaces, like stadiums or transportation hubs, to identify people carrying the virus. Their skills are being developed in Thailand, France, Britain, Chile, Australia, Belgium and Germany, among other countries. They have patrolled airports in Finland, Lebanon and the United Arab Emirates, and private companies have used them at American sporting events.A retired F.B.I. agent in Texas has been indicted on fraud charges and accused of conning a woman out of $800,000 by convincing her that she was on “secret probation” for drug crimes and needed to pay him and an accomplice for their work to “mentor” and “supervise” her, federal prosecutors said on Friday.
The man, William Roy Stone Jr., 62, who had retired from the Dallas field office of the F.B.I. about a month before the scam began, even proposed marrying the victim and said he would try to discharge her from probation, prosecutors said.
“Stone allegedly conned, threatened and stole from his victim, exploiting her trust in law enforcement for his own financial gain,” Cloey C. Pierce, special agent in charge of the Justice Department’s inspector general’s office in Dallas, said in a statement.
Gregg Gallian, a lawyer for Mr. Stone, said in a statement on Sunday, “Mr. Stone will clear his name in the courtroom and, in doing so, will bring the actual facts of this case to light.” Mr. Gallian added, “There is much more to this story.”In the military, intervening, especially against someone of a higher rank, can be culturally difficult, especially for younger recruits. “Barriers sometimes get in the way from people intervening,” said Carmen Schott, the sexual assault prevention and response program manager for the Air Force’s Air Mobility Command. “If someone is higher rank, you might be more timid to say something. The Air Force has put a lot of effort into making clear nothing negative will happen if you intervene.”
The aim of the virtual reality program is to act out scenarios with airmen in simulated environments. The technology allows the airmen to select from cues at the bottom of the screen to have an interactive “conversation” with a photo-realistic virtual actor, one whose facial expressions and reactions are meant to make the training more effective.
In this behavioral rehearsal, airmen learn what may be useful to say, such as asking their buddy if he has a gun in his house, and why some other responses — like “man up” — are not helpful. Participants get feedback on their “empathy” score and tips on how to improve in future encounters.
“Virtual reality training puts the user in a scenario, not in a classroom where you are zoning out and on your cellphone,” Ms. Schott explained. “You are an active participant. You have to be ready. I think that it is going to help airmen retain and remember knowledge. We don’t want people to feel judged. They may not make perfect decisions, but they will learn skills.”
Kevin Cornish, the chief executive of Moth+Flame, a virtual reality learning firm in Brooklyn, looked a little like an interloper on the Air Force base here, a casually dressed artist among uniforms. Mr. Cornish, who was working on Taylor Swift music videos when he became entranced by the immersive experience of a 360-degree camera used in one of them, said that there was “something so invigorating about somebody making eye contact and talking to you.”
He said he was increasingly seeing companies turn to virtual reality to simulate difficult work conversations and game out scenarios, especially around diversity and inclusion.Divided into seven sections, the document offers detailed policy proposals that would help more foreigners move to the United States, including high-skilled workers, trafficking victims, the families of Americans living abroad, American Indians born in Canada, refugees, asylum-seekers and farm workers. Immigrants who apply online could pay less in fees or even secure a waiver in an attempt to “reduce barriers” to immigration. And regulations would be overhauled to “encourage full participation by immigrants in our civic life.”
Even with a more restrictive and slower immigration system, about 1 million people obtained green cards in 2019, the last full year before the pandemic. Most had been waiting for years. In the final year of the Obama administration, 1.2 million people received green cards.
But if Mr. Biden accomplishes everything in the document, he will have gone further than just reversing the downward trend. He will have significantly increased opportunities for foreigners around the globe to come to the United States, embracing robust immigration even as a divisive, decades-long political debate continues to rage over such a policy.
Most of the changes could be put into practice without passage of Mr. Biden’s proposed overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws, which would provide a pathway to citizenship for millions of undocumented people living in the United States but has stalled in a bitterly divided Congress. While surveys show that most Americans support increased immigration, many Republican voters have eagerly backed Mr. Trump’s more restrictive policies.
White House officials declined to comment directly on the Homeland Security Department’s blueprint, saying that such documents go through many drafts and that decisions about specific steps to address legal immigration remain in flux. But they said the president remained committed to significantly rolling back the restrictions imposed by his predecessor.
That effort will take time and has not yet caught the public’s attention like the surge of crossings at the southwest border. But conservative activists who have for years demanded lower levels of legal immigration are vowing a fight to stop Mr. Biden and extract a political price for his actions.WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans countered President Biden’s latest $1.7 trillion infrastructure plan on Thursday with a blueprint to provide roughly $257 billion in new funding for roads, bridges and other public works projects, offering a small fraction of what Mr. Biden is seeking as negotiations on the package reach a critical stage.
The Republican plan would total $928 billion over eight years, but most of that money would come from maintaining existing programs, with the amount of new spending amounting to less than one-seventh of the sum that Mr. Biden has requested for an expansive infrastructure initiative.
The $1.4 trillion gulf in new spending between the Republican proposal and the president’s reflected deeply held differences between the two sides over the package, and the long odds standing in the way of any bipartisan compromise. Republicans want to limit any infrastructure deal to traditional public works projects like roads, bridges and public transportation, while Mr. Biden has pitched a far more ambitious plan to include expansions of the social safety net. And they remain divided over how to finance the package.
Still, with the president determined to keep his pledge to pursue a bipartisan deal, the White House left the door open for the talks to continue into early June, when Congress returns from a weeklong Memorial Day break. Mr. Biden, who flew to Ohio on Thursday to deliver remarks about the economy, spoke briefly with Senator Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, the lead Republican negotiator, and agreed to give the discussions more time.After more than a year of pandemic restrictions, many Americans are leaving their masks behind, making summer travel plans and joyously reuniting with family and friends. As more are vaccinated and new infections plummet, there is a sense that the worst of the pandemic is over in the United States.
But for people like Michele Preissler, 60, the worst has just begun.
Ms. Preissler lost her husband to Covid-19 in late May, just as many restrictions were being lifted and life, for many, was starting to look more like normal. Customers were going without masks last week at the Walmart near her home in Pasadena, Md., where she was shopping for items for her husband’s funeral.
“Everybody is saying, ‘Oh, it’s fine,’” said Ms. Preissler, whose husband, Darryl Preissler, 63, loved to hunt, camp and go crabbing with his grandson. “I’m just thinking to myself, ‘If you only knew what I just went through.’”
With half of Americans protected with at least one dose of a vaccine, the virus outlook in this country is the best it has been at any point in the pandemic. New cases, hospitalizations and deaths are lower than they have been in many months, and even the most cautious health officials are celebrating the country’s progress. Fully vaccinated people, who are at low risk of catching and spreading the virus, have been told they can take off their masks and return to many regular activities, with the support of top scientists.Cpl. Matt Tooker, my second in command, the team’s anchor and my close friend, had walked to the edge before he was shot twice in the arm. We had dragged him to cover, working to put on a tourniquet as I tried to assure him everything was going to be OK. He died a little over a year later in a motorcycle accident. The other Marine, who was shot in the chest, returned to Marja a few weeks later.
And there was the field where I said goodbye to Josh. The mosque where we were ambushed. The house where I told the team that Josh was dead. The patrol base we built, C.O.P. Turbett, named after the engineer, Cpl. Jacob Turbett, who was killed at the beginning of the assault, was gone along with any evidence of its existence. The parking lot and tents were once again a field, just as we had found it more than a decade ago, as if we had never been there.
Once more, I was wearing sunglasses so no one in the helicopter could see me crying.
We began the descent into F.O.B. Marja, its blueprint vaguely the way I remembered it. There was a new district center building, but the old skeleton of our base remained, the motor pool still distinguishable as was the spot of ground where we set chairs and a stage and the rifle tucked between boots for Josh’s memorial service. The buildings around it seemed almost completely destroyed: Years of shelling and firefights between the Taliban and American and then Afghan forces had taken its toll.
We landed as we had before, violently. The sheep were thrown off along with the food and ammunition. This time five soldiers left with us, their stay at the surrounded outpost having expired. Clustered in the back of the helicopter they took selfies, smiles wide. The aircraft crew passed them their Gatorades. They were ecstatic to get out alive.“Choose the right tree,” says Dustin Feider, whose company O2, based in Oakland, Calif., builds high-end treehouses for clients around the country, including a $500,000 one that he’s currently working on in Sonoma County. Feider’s designs tend to be modern and whimsical, like his pinecone-shaped, geodesic-glass treehouse suspended 50 feet up in a cluster of redwoods. His obsession with treehouses started when he was a child in Pewaukee, Wis., where he cobbled together his first structure up a poplar using scrap lumber pilfered from a nearby construction site.
Building a treehouse usually requires drilling into a tree; talk to a local arborist first. Look for a hardwood or conifer with a trunk that’s at least one foot in diameter when measured 4½ feet off the ground. If you don’t have a strong-enough tree, you can use stilts as supports. Remember, trees grow and change just like humans do. Your design should take into account the inevitable maturation of both. If you’re building for a 6-year-old, take into consideration what that child might enjoy as a 12-year-old. Don’t be limited by your preconceptions. “Maybe it doesn’t need to be that Berenstain Bears, cabin-in-a-tree kind of treehouse you grew up knowing,” Feider says.
Secure your beams to the tree using specialized treehouse-attachment bolts, which help minimize damage. To foster adventurousness, build your platform at least eight feet off the ground. “It should be out of reach of an adult,” Feider says. It helps to have some basic construction know-how and a willingness to look up engineering questions like the weight capacity of your bolts or the span capacity of the wood you’re using. Consult a professional if you feel unsure or if you want to build at a height that you wouldn’t survive falling. Do-it-yourselfers should consider a simple platform with railings as a starting point. How people get into your treehouse will depend on user demographics. A simple rope ladder often works but maybe not if Grandpa wants to go up.
If you’re building for a child, include some classic features like a trap door, a rope and pulley and maybe even a ship’s steering wheel. But don’t feel obliged to trick it out too much; the real point of a treehouse is to be up a tree. Let the change of perspective — the elevated proximity to bark, branches and leaves — be the central experience.President Biden plans to announce that he has selected R. Nicholas Burns, a veteran Foreign Service officer and a former ambassador to NATO, as his ambassador to China, and Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles as his ambassador to India, according to two people familiar with the process.
Mr. Biden has also selected Thomas R. Nides, a vice chairman at Morgan Stanley who served as a deputy secretary of state under President Barack Obama, to serve as the ambassador to Israel, those people said.
Rahm Emanuel, the former mayor of Chicago and Mr. Obama’s chief of staff, who developed a close relationship with Mr. Biden when he was vice president, has been selected to serve as ambassador to Japan, the people said. And Ken Salazar, a former senator from Colorado and the interior secretary in the Obama administration, is said to have been chosen as the ambassador to Mexico.
Mr. Biden has been reviewing lists of names for some of the crucial jobs for months and was deeply interested and involved in the selection process, administration officials said. And many of the nominees for coveted ambassadorships were offered the positions weeks or months ago.Foster Friess, a Wyoming businessman who founded an investment firm, made a fortune and gave a lot of it away to Republican presidential candidates and charities, sometimes with flair, died on Thursday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 81.
His organization, Foster’s Outriders, which confirmed the death, said he had been receiving care at the Mayo Clinic there for myelodysplastic syndrome, a disorder of the blood cells and bone marrow.
On Twitter, Gov. Mark Gordon of Wyoming, who defeated Mr. Friess in the Republican gubernatorial primary in 2018, called Mr. Friess “a strong and steady voice for Republican and Christian values.”
Mr. Friess’s run for governor was his only try at major elected office. In the political arena he was primarily known for his donations, particularly to the presidential bids of Rick Santorum, the former United States senator from Pennsylvania, in the 2012 and 2016 campaigns. After Mr. Santorum left the 2016 race, Mr. Friess became one of the first Republican megadonors to embrace Donald J. Trump.Michael: We met in our neighborhood six years ago. We found shared passions in the work we were doing in the community. Our kids ended up going to the same summer camp. Read More
I was furloughed in February of last year from working as a contractor for I.B.M. I was there for a temporary job for three months and ended up working for a little over three years. They ended up closing out the department and outsourcing it. I filed for unemployment, and I got denied, so I had to appeal it. I was able to articulate the need. To be vindicated and get the payout — I felt it was very fair. With our consulting firm, I was supporting Shemekka leading us, and after my furlough, I felt the need to come on full time.
We don’t fight. We were both divorcees coming together. Fighting and leaving is not an option. We’re friends. We truly like each other. And so that makes the love part easier. We both know we do the best for our children and our family.
Shemekka: Our 3-year-old, Chi, has seasonal allergies that lead to asthma attacks. He was too young when it first flared up to be diagnosed as asthma. We have to use care and use breathing machines in transition of seasons, because he’s triggered by pollen, dust and season changes. Last year, I gave birth at the age of 40. We had to get my mom to come from out of town and stay with the other kids, because we really got locked down in the hospital to get through pregnancy and recovery, and we had to stay some extra days because our son was born jaundiced.
We were trying to buy a house in the pandemic. We were competing and putting in bids that would get shot down. But the process went just like that as soon as we got out of the city. We bought a house in a nearby county outside of Raleigh. It had a lot to do with the housing market and our ability to get the space we need and the amount of house we could afford. We are not making any big-ticket purchases until after the close. There were some outlier expenses that we wouldn’t do monthly, as far as paying for the appraiser and vehicle repair. Things like that aren’t regular.
We are monitoring the grades of four kids and four different schools — four different school styles, and all in the same county but different calendars. That’s enough, I think, to pull your hair out. We try to get up five days a week to meditate and ground ourselves.There is no way that summer in America in 2021 can live up to these expectations. For one thing, the idea of a clear end to the pandemic is something of an illusion: Vaccination rates have grown sluggish in some places, and Covid-19 cases may not fall as much as we hope. Distancing and masking rules may stay in place, out of caution, inertia or both. And after a traumatic year, it is hard to simply flip a switch toward fun.
There’s also the fact that summer never lives up to expectations, especially when you’re a teenager. My own teenage summers, spent mostly with family in Rhode Island, were characterized by languid boredom, by waiting for rides, by trips to the library or Panera. I had sleepovers with friends but was rarely brave enough to sneak out to the parties of which we were only vaguely aware. I developed crushes on boys I was too shy to talk to in person and instead maintained long instant-message chats with. I studied algebra. I was always waiting for something to happen that never did, something that had been articulated to me in romantic comedies and Sarah Dessen novels — the elusive summer romance, or really anything significant that I might tell friends about in September.
Things are different now, of course. There is the ubiquity of social media; with its pressure to constantly perform an elevated version of your life, it increases both the intensity of anticipation for summer and the general sense that summer will probably happen better for other people, elsewhere. And yet I am amazed, especially in the montage videos, by how familiar parts of them are, in both content and feeling. You see the same old eager yearnings in the same expectant period of spring, only intensified by a year of lockdowns and remote schooling and sickness and fear. In one video, a girl’s caption reads, “I would absolutely die for a summer like this — please please please God I really want this.” It then flashes through another reel of summer photos: kisses, bicycles, people sitting on the hood of a car in wet suits.
The images have the feel of something pulled from someone else’s camera, from some indefinable time in the past. (Or maybe it’s the current vogue for Polaroids and disposable cameras that amplifies that retro feel.) Each montage draws from a well of all-American images, crisscrossing decades of cultural imagination: bonfires that recall 1960s beach-party movies; sunsets so perfectly orange that they remind me of the “Endless Summer” poster that was popular when I was in college; red cups redolent of parties in ’90s films; big iced lattes that feel like a signature of certain TikTok teenagers; and the rain, always the rain, the moment when the clouds break, the moment for the music to build, the moment for the kiss, or at least the imagination of it.
The poignancy of these videos overwhelms me. These teenagers are trying to imagine and perform a future by grabbing at an inaccessible past. The touchstones upon which they rely are hardly universal, but they loom so large in the culture that they stand in for lived experience. They are images that have been laundered through movies and advertising and books into a tacit promise: This is what summer ought to be like. As with proms or graduations or any other teenage milestones, kids consume versions of these summers well in advance of being able to participate in them. Last year, their rituals were largely canceled, a small but meaningful tragedy. Now these montages, full of the stock material of idealized summers, are pleading for and rehearsing the season the culture has sold them.When I closed my restaurant because of Covid, I said I would put her to “sleep” indefinitely, and I said I’d take the time to think hard on some old, industrywide pre-existing problems: the enraging fact of ICE raids; the hard-to-stomach pay inequities between the tipped waiter and hourly cook, and the tipped bartender and hourly dishwasher; rent absurdities, breathtaking insurance-company greed and the demoralizing truth of what was left over for the chef-owners of places like mine — whisper-thin or break-even profit margins. I said I would use the time to think about how much to actually charge for, say, a plate of brunch eggs, or a Bloody Mary, that would reflect the real cost of doing business, and I said that I would wake Prune up and see what she might look like once I had all those answers in hand.
Those answers are far from being in hand in spite of having some 14 months to sort them out; I couldn’t do it all on my own, and we haven’t done it as a group, as an industry, either. Obviously we’ve been preoccupied by the scramble just to stay alive. In the meantime, I’m sure that whenever I do “wake her up,” Prune won’t be serving brunch anymore. While it was always my favorite shift to cook, the king of shifts in my view — that 10-burner egg station during a rocking, relentless, 230-covers brunch, holy smokes! — I already knew that I would not resuscitate it 14 months ago, when I saw that “brunch” had become a verb, and in New York City, at least, a kind of nasty elbows-out, raucous one that twisted my front-of-house staff into sorry objects. The poor girl at the door trying to tame the wait-list line, the poor servers trying to stay cool when the parties of six split their bill with six credit cards tossed onto the plate. I’ve already thrown out the beaten-up egg pans and given away the huge plates we used to use for brunch, but there are a bunch of recipes that still have solid value, that aren’t quite ready for the garage sale.
Here’s our big-batch recipe for ranchero sauce; I’ve been missing it, and it still delivers in a major way. After some 1,000 Friday mornings of my life that started with the powerful scent of a simmering triple batch of the sauce in preparation for weekend brunches and the countless orders of huevos rancheros we cranked out, you might think it’s the last thing I’d need to revisit. But in fact, more than shaved truffle, more than freshly peeled oranges or chocolate-cake baking, simmering ranchero sauce is the scent that I still miss and crave. An excitement that hasn’t spoiled or turned in memory. It’s still, incredibly, over a thousand Fridays later, a perfection.
Huevos rancheros has been a staple in North American restaurant kitchens of every ilk — from Taco Bell franchises to, well, little artisanal Prune, with its eggs cracked to order into individual pans — for as many decades as I’ve been a cook. And this recipe is a superb one: a workhorse, one of those that scale up and down beautifully, freeze well and long, are sturdy and easy to prepare. It’s tangy, a little smoky and wildly fragrant.The Biden administration will require the nation’s pipeline companies to report to the government any time they are hit with a significant cyberattack, and to create 24-hour emergency centers for such episodes, Alejandro N. Mayorkas, the secretary of homeland security, said Thursday morning.
The move is the first of several, administration officials said Wednesday night, to address the lessons of the Colonial Pipeline ransomware attack this month, which forced Colonial to shut off the systems that send gasoline and jet fuel to nearly half of the East Coast. But based on the details released by people familiar with the order, it does little to solve the central problems that were revealed by that attack.
The officials characterized the step as more aggressive regulation of the pipelines, under authority that belongs to the National Transportation Safety Board. Presumably those requirements will examine whether the attacks on the business network can “migrate” to the operational controls of the pipelines themselves.
In the Colonial Pipeline case, the company brought down the flow of gasoline and jet fuel for fear that malware in its business software — filled with budgets and emails — could interact with the digital control systems used for directing the fuel to tanks up and down the Eastern Seaboard.Republicans on Friday blocked the creation of an independent commission to investigate the Jan. 6 Capitol riot, using their filibuster power in the Senate for the first time this year to doom a full accounting for the deadliest attack on Congress in centuries.
With the vast majority of Republicans determined to shield their party from potential political damage that could come from scrutiny of the storming of the Capitol by a pro-Trump mob, only six G.O.P. senators joined Democrats to support advancing the measure. The final vote, 54 to 35, fell short of the 60 senators needed to move forward.
The vote was a stinging defeat for proponents of the commission, who had argued that it was the only way to assemble a truly comprehensive account of the riot for a polarized nation. Modeled after the inquiry into the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the proposed panel of experts would have been responsible for producing a report on the assault and recommendations to secure Congress by the end of the year.
The debate played out in the same chamber where a throng of supporters of former President Donald J. Trump, egged on by his lies of a stolen election and efforts by Republican lawmakers to invalidate President Biden’s victory, sought to disrupt Congress’s counting of electoral votes about five months ago.Photo illustration by Bráulio Amado Talk Tony Hawk’s Greatest Trick? Becoming a Middle-aged Skateboard Star.
For a long time, the skateboarding icon Tony Hawk’s career appeared to have followed the trajectory of one of his tricks: He built up momentum during the 1980s and early 1990s, launched into an airborne peak in the late 1990s and early 2000s (thanks to his success in the newly televised X Games competitions and the popularity of the Tony Hawk Pro Skater video games) and then made a somewhat jarring return to Earth, pulled down by age and diminished cool. But improbably, Hawk has defied the laws of pop-culture gravity. Over the last few years, aided by his charmingly self-deprecating social media presence and inspiring ability to maintain his still-formidable vert-ramp skills, Hawk has attained near-folk-hero status by proving that it’s possible to have a viable career as a 53-year-old professional skateboarder. “I’m doing it against all odds, in terms of Father Time,” Hawk says. “But I still have that drive. I still have the skill. So why not?”
The big criticism you used to get from skateboarding purists was for being a sellout. But the idea of selling out doesn’t meaningfully exist in today’s culture — people just accept that there’s no real way to avoid working with corporations and big-name brands. Is that a good thing? I see it as much more accepting. It’s like, “Hey, good for you that you got that Subway commercial.” There will always be people who have this other sense of morality, and they’re like, “You’re working for the man” and “globalization” or whatever else they’re coming up with, but that’s their view. It’s impossible to please everyone, and it’s even harder to stay super core because at some point you’ve got to provide for your family. I was always transparent about endorsing things. Like, I ate at McDonald’s. I still eat McDonald’s. I got a bacon, egg and cheese biscuit two days ago. So it wasn’t like I was changing my value system to get paid. It’s that my value system differs from others’.
Is it right that your business card used to list your title as “media whore”? [Laughs.] Yeah.
So where was the line for what you would or wouldn’t endorse? If I felt that it was disconnected from skating and was just trying to utilize skating’s cool factor to sell a product that had no business being there — I mean, there were times when I got offered to do a cologne. I felt like, I don’t think people are associating me with high fashion. Another one was gummy vitamins shaped like skateboards. That felt forced.
Not like Bagel Bites? Well, Bagel Bites — I have kids who love them. And they were going to pay me to do a commercial? Awesome. I genuinely was a consumer.
Tony Hawk in 1983. J. Grant Brittain
But now all those old criticisms have really faded away, and I think a lot of that has to do with your social media. Especially how every once in a while you’ll get a viral tweet out of sharing a story about someone not recognizing you at a skate park or wondering if you’re the “real” Tony Hawk. And the responses to those tweets show such affection. What accounts for that? Is it Gen X nostalgia? Just to clear up that whole meme: Generally when I’m out and about, people will recognize me: “Hey, are you Tony Hawk?” “Yeah.” “Oh, let me get a selfie.” “OK, cool.” That’s the interaction. But often I get the mistaken identity, or they’ll see my ID and it says Anthony Hawk and they somehow can’t make that connection. Those are the ones I share, because I think they’re funny. I don’t expect people to recognize me. It’s fine if they don’t; I’ll play along with it. It drives my daughter crazy. We were at a coronavirus testing place, and this woman said: “Kady Hawk? Anthony Hawk? Are you guys related to Tony Hawk?” And I said: “Yes. Directly related.” “Oh, that’s so cool.” Then off we went, and my daughter was like, “Why didn’t you tell her?” I’m not going to pretentiously be like, “Well, actually, that is me." I know that people think somehow I’m making them all up. I saw a couple of people who were like, “Oh, yeah, he’s got a video game coming out; now he’s doing all this P.R. and making up stories.” That’s the internet. You can’t win.
But I guess what I’m really trying to get at is your perception of a shift in feeling about you. For example — forget about the sellout thing — in old issues of Thrasher magazine, there would be times when aficionados would even criticize your skateboarding style. Now that negativity is gone. Do you feel that difference? Oh, yeah, absolutely. I persevered through a lot of ridicule and critique. Especially when I was successful as a competitor, because people thought these big companies don’t belong in skateboarding: “How could you be sponsored by a Club Med or Hot Wheels or McDonald’s?” I took it in stride because when I first started getting successful at skating, my style was ridiculed — so I had already been through all this flak. I was scrawny, I was skinny, I didn’t look cool. I didn’t flow the way the old-school guys did. I wasn’t a Dogtown guy. So they were like, “Who’s this little robot kid doing circus tricks with a skateboard?” I’d finally found in skateboarding the one thing that speaks to me — which already set me apart from my peers, because it’s an outcast activity — and then I was an outcast in that. It was so crushing. But skateboarding gave me much more happiness, so I was prepared to deal with that disappointment. So, yeah, the years of becoming the king sellout, according to the hard-core skaters — I didn’t care. I learned to be resilient early in life. Now, absolutely, I can’t believe the positive feedback I get. I’m so thankful that people still think I’m relevant, that they want to see what I do. I mean, the thing that I did a couple of months ago — my last Ollie 540 — I did that because I thought it was fun. I wasn’t trying to make some viral moment. And it blew up! I remember when I first learned to Ollie 540, it was on a backyard ramp with two people watching. That’s a big change.
Hawk in 1985 at the Del Mar Spring Nationals in California. J. Grant Brittain
You were bullied as a kid. Did that experience color things for you later on? I always carry a little of it — always wondering if people think I’m awkward. But over the last 10 years, I’ve come to terms with how people — not how people see me, but with my confidence levels. I used to come off as arrogant because I didn’t feel comfortable in my own skin. Kids would come up to me looking for some acknowledgment, and I didn’t even know how to talk. So they would be like: “He’s stuck up.” “He won’t talk to me.” I’ve learned to break out of that discomfort. It’s much more fun now. I love meeting kids who skate, and I think the thing a lot of them take away from it is that I’m a skate rat at heart, too.
Your son Riley is a pro skater. Have you learned things about the industry from his career? Because it’s very different than when you started. Now it’s all about making social media content rather than competing or getting sponsorships. Well, I knew it was possible to make a career as a skateboarder without having to compete, just by making sure that you are providing content. The more surprising element is that he has figured out how to maintain a public persona. I’m proud that he was able to come out from what was probably a very difficult shadow of mine. There were some years when he got discouraged from skating, and I think it was largely because of the attention he got from being my son. He actually kind of quit skating for a year or so when he was about 14.
Did you care? I understood it. He was trying to figure out what he wanted to do. He wanted to ride Motocross. And he was OK, but he wasn’t a phenom. I remember one day we were driving home from the track, and he was talking about how he was trying to get sponsored for Motocross. I told him: “Riley, I know you love doing this, but I think that if you want to choose a career and you want to get sponsored, skateboarding is probably the best option, because you’re really good for your age. And I’m not saying that because I’m your dad. You are a phenomenal skater. And in Motocross, you’re having fun, but you’re not going to races, you’re not doing tricks. And so, I don’t want to discourage you from that but — ” I think he listened to me.
Hawk at the 1998 X Games in San Diego. Getty Images
Did you have any concerns from a physical standpoint about your kid following in your footsteps? I mean, how many bones have you broken? I did. But I feel like my kids are all aware of their limitations. I’ve only officially broken two bones.
“Officially”? Yeah. I fractured my pelvis. I fractured my skull, fractured my thumb, broke my elbow. I had plenty of sprains and scrapes. And I’ve had concussions through the years. For sure I’m concerned for my own kids. But how could I possibly discourage them from doing the thing that brought me the most joy besides them?
What is your physical state these days? There are tricks that I don’t want to attempt any more because the risk far outweighs the reward. They’re tricks that I used to take for granted, and it’s like, I’m not really going to get a lot out of doing it again unless I decide, all right, I’m going to put my mind to it and make this the last one. But so many of those tricks — I know the cost of one tiny mistake. It could be devastating. So that doesn’t interest me. But the state of my body? I feel healthy. My neck is super stiff. That’s probably the one ongoing issue, and not getting any better. You know when you call out to someone, and they turn to look? When I turn, you’d be like, “Oh, what’s wrong with your neck?”
Personally, I decided to stop skateboarding after I did a 720 kick-flip. Because it was perfect, or because you got hurt?
Obviously I did it perfectly. That’s unfortunate then. You really could have gone somewhere with skateboarding. I’ve only ever seen a 720 heel-flip, by the way. So if you did that trick, you would have an N.B.D.
I’ve never actually ever been on a skateboard, but thank you for humoring me. Whether it’s in skating or business, what are you most excited to try next? We’re emerging from this strange year: I have my first public appearance coming up in June. I’m speaking at a Bitcoin conference. I’ve been investing in Bitcoin for almost 10 years. I can’t say that I got mega-rich, but I can’t complain either.
“I can’t say that I got mega-rich.” What does that mean? You made millions? Ah, close to. Not quite. I don’t know how to answer that correctly. I cashed out a bit a few years ago when Bitcoin was on its other tear. That came at a time when, honestly, my career seemed to be dwindling. About three years ago, four years ago, it was hard to get sponsorships. I understood. I’m definitely one of the oldest skaters trying to make it as a pro. But at the same time, I was like, I’m still out there, I’m still relevant — why can’t I land things? Also, the idea of endorsements was morphing. Everything had become social media. It wasn’t like you’re getting a three-year contract with an automobile manufacturer. It was more like here is a five-month promotion with a restaurant or a franchise. All of that was shifting, and I wasn’t really getting it. I’m digressing, but suddenly my fun project of Bitcoin was blowing up, and I was like, Oh, we can pull out money for Christmas gifts. That is literally what happened.
I don’t know anything about buying Bitcoin. What’s some advice? Buy the dip.
Hawk in 2018 at Bowl-A-Rama in Sydney, Australia. Don Arnold/WireImage, via Getty Images
You know, I read the tour-diary book that you wrote years ago, which honestly seemed kind of sanitized. Are there rowdier stories that didn’t make it into print? Oh, yeah, sure. But I feel I’ve come a long way in terms of personal growth. I’m trying to stay on the straight and narrow. The kind of stories maybe you’re talking about are more, like, rock-star type of stuff when we were in our teens and 20s. And a lot of it was careless or even disrespectful in some ways, and I don’t like to celebrate that, especially as a father. It seems distasteful to be like, Yeah, we did this and that and chicks, you know? I’m a grown-ass man with a family.
Has the culture of skateboarding as far as gender equality changed since you were young? Society changed, and skateboarding has evolved with society. Back in the day, it was considered this sort of guys’ sport. Female skaters were few and far between. The last five to 10 years has changed dramatically in terms of the diversity and the acceptance, the compassion and the understanding that skateboarding can be anyone’s identity. The irony in the early days was that skateboarding set you apart; you chose it because it was a different culture, a different attitude, different music, but at the same time, it wasn’t accepting of so many different types of people in terms of gender or sexual orientation. Now it’s much more welcoming and progressive. That’s so exciting. I can’t believe that at my age, I’m still able to participate.
Think you’ll ever stop? If my skills are truly fading and I’m just going through the motions, I wouldn’t be doing it in public. I won’t be on display. But I’ll still be skating.
Opening illustration: Source photograph by JB Lacroix/WireImage, via Getty Images.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two conversations.The former speaker tempered his criticism by avoiding any mention of Mr. Trump by name — except to say that the former president’s brand of populism, when “tethered to conservative principles,” had led to economic growth, and to credit him with bringing new voters to the party.
Mr. Trump responded on Friday morning with a lengthy statement calling Mr. Ryan “a curse to the Republican Party,” adding that “he has no clue as to what needs to be done for our Country, was a weak and ineffective leader, and spends all of his time fighting Republicans as opposed to Democrats who are destroying our Country.”
Mr. Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice-presidential nominee, left behind his 20-year career in Congress in 2019. In his role as speaker, he kowtowed to Mr. Trump at first, and later edged away from him, publicly breaking with the former president only after leaving office.
Since then, he has taken on roles as a visiting professor at the University of Notre Dame; a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, the conservative think tank; and a board member of the Fox Corporation.
Mr. Ryan’s political re-emergence, and his relatively gentle warning of the dangers of a party crafted in Mr. Trump’s image, came as the former president has said he plans to return to the campaign trail this summer with rallies for Republican House and Senate candidates supportive of his agenda and his election falsehoods. Mr. Trump is also still hinting at a potential presidential run in 2024.And So We All Fall Down
By Richard Blanco
{after and for Anselm Kiefer’s installation:
Steigend steigend sinke nieder
(rising, rising, falling down), 2009-2012}
And so the hunks of pavement heaved and set
before us are every road we’ve tired, and those
we wish we had, and those we will, and those
we never will, or those that’ll dead-end when
our empire ends. And so let our debris to be
reassembled as tenderly as these curated bits
of rubble letting us see how chaos yields order,
and order chaos. And so let our nation’s faces
be these boulders like tiny, bruised moons out
of orbit, and yet enduring, still spinning across
the shiny gallery floor, despite the brutal love
of the universe and brutal love for our country.
And so let us believe we won’t simply end like
the speck of a star that will explode as quietly
as a poem whispered above our rooftops into
a black hole into the black night. And so let us
believe there is still eternity even in our ruin,
like this art made out of these remains, made
more alive by destruction. And so all the dead
stalks of these sunflowers embalmed with paint
and fixed by our imagination dangling forever
from the ceiling like acrobats that’ll never fall.
And so the hope in what they let us hope: that
our ideals won’t all disappear, that some trace
of what we have believed must endure beyond
our decay, beyond entropy’s law, assuring us
we’ll live on, even after our inevitable dissolve.A federal judge in Manhattan on Friday ordered the appointment of a so-called special master to review whether materials seized from Rudolph W. Giuliani’s apartment and office during an F.B.I. search in April are protected by attorney-client privilege.
The searches were part of a criminal investigation into whether Mr. Giuliani broke lobbying laws in his dealings in Ukraine before the 2020 presidential election. Mr. Giuliani was President Donald J. Trump’s personal lawyer at the time.
Mr. Giuliani was seeking to uncover damaging information on President Biden, then a leading presidential candidate. The authorities are examining whether Mr. Giuliani was also lobbying the Trump administration on behalf of Ukrainian officials who were assisting him in his dirt-digging mission, The New York Times has reported.
Mr. Giuliani has not been accused of any wrongdoing. He has said he never lobbied on behalf of the Ukrainians.The scene with the face occurs near the end of a particularly brutal episode. June has once again escaped and been recaptured. She has been bound, muzzled and tortured. That’s not even the worst part. The worst part is watching a procession of characters — the sadistic enforcer Aunt Lydia, June’s former lover Nick, her sometimes-ally Lawrence, an interrogating lieutenant with a youth-minister vibe — act as though none of this is happening, or it is happening for her own good, or is her own fault. The nail-pulling is bad, but the denial of reality is worse.
June asks to be released from having to fight. She’s tired of repeating herself, of making the same face, of being locked up in gulags and prisons and beautiful houses. She would rather die than relive it. Aunt Lydia responds — with what sounds like kindness, but of course isn’t — that June’s life is in no danger: She will simply be sent to a forced-labor and breeding colony. June laughs, because she’s cursed with clarity in a world distorted by ideology. “So much change to adjust to,” Aunt Lydia clucks soothingly. “But try to remember that all of this is your doing.” She looks June in the eye: “You’re responsible. Your fault. Your choice.”
This series has put June into a trap. She started as an ordinary person, an Everywoman, but the show gradually transformed her into something more abstract: the female condition, maybe. Or feminist ideals, or democratic values, or hope for an equitable world, or simply righteousness. She can’t give up, and she can’t lose. But she can’t win either, not when the battles are being fought in parallel realities. This is how we end up in a fourth season, watching her slog through another round of this fight.
Soon, “The Handmaid’s Tale” will have to try to bend its way to some satisfying conclusion. June can get out to safety, at least physically. But if this show has insisted on anything, it’s that safety is an illusion, and “out” doesn’t exist. We carry the roots of our destruction with us. Whatever resting point the show may find for her, whatever “Canada” of the oppressed imagination, it will likely be better than what you get in reality, which is the knowledge that whatever righteous struggle you were a part of will long outlast you and never be fully won.
Source photographs: Screen grabs from HuluWalter Kissinger, who was a successful businessman and philanthropist on Long Island and who for much of his adult life had to contend with being the lesser-known Kissinger — that is, not the secretary of state — died on May 3 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 96.
The cause was long-term renal failure, his family said.
Mr. Kissinger, who emigrated to the United States from Germany with his family as a teenager in 1938, was the president and chief executive of the Allen Group, a multinational conglomerate based in Melville, N.Y., that under his leadership concentrated on manufacturing automotive parts as well as on mobile communications technology.
Even as a captain of industry, Walter Kissinger was not above poking fun at his famous statesman brother, Henry. Once, at a White House reception, according to Walter’s son William, Walter told President Richard M. Nixon in a mock grave tone that Nixon had done something unforgivable by appointing Henry secretary of state. Nixon stiffened with dread. Then Walter deadpanned that this meant he would forever be known as Henry’s brother. (Nixon, William Kissinger said, sighed with relief.)
When Walter left the Allen Group in 1988, he devoted himself to philanthropy and to helping revitalize the local economy. He founded a consortium called the Long Island Research Institute that fostered collaboration between Brookhaven National Laboratory, Stony Brook University and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory with the goal of speeding up the transfer of their research to commercial applications.One thing I knew as an aspiring writer was that I was supposed to sit in front of a page for more than 10 minutes. I could not. I had grown up in Colombia during a violent time in the country’s history; my family and I had fled, but I suffered from PTSD. Fear had worked its way under my skin. I wrote a sentence, then questioned whether my surroundings were safe. I got up to check the locks, turn every available light on. The writing came a sentence at a time, but I could hardly finish anything. Even so, I loved writing and longed to do it in spite of personal distress.
First, I tried imagining myself as a cranky office manager. I monitored data. I clocked in and out with timecards. I created pie charts to track my time and the time it took to track my time. I drew elaborate graphs where Y measured the rise and fall of quality pages and X stood for possible culprits — starches, desk locations, prying eyes, news consumption, anxiety.
The data did not bring me closer to the state of mind I had identified as the most conducive for writing: a floating between presence and absence, a sense of stillness, awareness and listening.
Reflecting on that ideal mental state, I thought of mesmerism, the precursor to hypnosis, conceived in the 1770s by the German physician Franz Anton Mesmer. One school of his followers favored the somnambulistic trance, instigated by a choreography of visuals and touch. I began to wonder whether such trances could be of use to me, whether they would induce that floating sensation I needed in order to quiet the disturbances of trauma and dedicate myself to writing. And so I began to develop a ritual — a way of hypnotizing myself.“We are a really big economy where really big forces are shaping what happens to G.D.P. growth,” said Wendy Edelberg, director of the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution and a former C.B.O. chief economist.
Even these moderate projections by the Biden administration imply that its policies will lift growth in economic activity by a few tenths of a percent each year over a decade. This is significant when comparing it with the growth that would be expected by simply looking at demographic factors and historical averages of productivity growth. The forecast is more inherently optimistic about Mr. Biden’s policies — and their potential to increase productivity and the size of the work force — than it might seem at first glance.
Biden’s 2022 Budget A new year, a new budget: The 2022 fiscal year for the federal government begins on October 1, and President Biden has revealed what he’d like to spend, starting then. But any spending requires approval from both chambers of Congress. Ambitious total spending: President Biden would like the federal government to spend $6 trillion in the 2022 fiscal year, and for total spending to rise to $8.2 trillion by 2031. That would take the United States to its highest sustained levels of federal spending since World War II, while running deficits above $1.3 trillion through the next decade. Infrastructure plan: The budget outlines the president’s desired first year of investment in his American Jobs Plan, which seeks to fund improvements to roads, bridges, public transit and more with a total of $2.3 billion over eight years. Families plan: The budget also addresses the other major spending proposal Biden has already rolled out, his American Families Plan, aimed at bolstering the United States’ social safety net by expanding access to education, reducing the cost of child care and supporting women in the work force. Mandatory programs: As usual, mandatory spending on programs like Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare make up a significant portion of the proposed budget. They are growing as America’s population ages. Discretionary spending: Funding for the individual budgets of the agencies and programs under the executive branch would reach around $1.5 trillion in 2022, a 16 percent increase from the previous budget. How Biden would pay for it: The president would largely fund his agenda by raising taxes on corporations and high earners, which would begin to shrink budget deficits in the 2030s. Administration officials have said tax increases would fully offset the jobs and families plans over the course of 15 years, which the budget request backs up. In the meantime, the budget deficit would remain above $1.3 trillion each year.
“Making the claim that your fiscal policies will boost growth by four-tenths of a point seems optimistic, but I can see how they could get there,” she said.
Jason Furman, the Obama administration’s former top economist, said: “I think there’s a problem that people have in their head — more extravagant ideas about what economic policy can do and how quickly it can do it. When you’re talking about productivity enhancement, you’re talking about compounding that becomes a big deal for a long time.”
In other words, the difference of a few tenths of a percent of G.D.P. growth might not mean much for a single year, but a gap of that size that persists for many years has a big impact on living standards.
Some of the administration’s policies, by design, would focus on the very long-term impact on the nation’s economic potential. For example, additional money for community colleges might actually depress the size of the labor force, and thus G.D.P., in the short run if more adults go back to school. But it would then increase those workers’ productive potential, and thus contribution to growth, for the decades that follow.
Conservatives, for their part, view the Biden agenda as likely to restrain growth, particularly once tax increases and new regulatory action go into effect. Mr. Mulligan, the Trump adviser, said he believed the Biden agenda would reduce the nation’s growth path by around 0.8 percentage points a year compared with its Trump-era trajectory. Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum, said he thought Mr. Biden’s policies could create faster growth in the short term but slower growth in the long run because of taxes and spending.Ulven also provided a raw foundation that’s now being built upon, both by her acolytes and also herself, as is clear from two excellent new releases: “If I Could Make It Go Quiet,” the first full-length girl in red album, and “Blood Bunny,” Moriondo’s major label debut album.
On the robust and vividly plain-spoken “Blood Bunny,” Moriondo, now 18, is a pop-punk whiz, deftly hopping between musical approaches from spare to lushly produced, and emphasizing intimate, cut-to-the-bone lyrics. Most songs are about relationships that don’t quite congeal, like “Manta Rays,” when she sings, “My therapist will tell me that it’s best to let it be/but I wanna light fires, I wanna explode/I want to be everything you want to know.”
Moriondo writes with a winning bluntness, both about her own shortcomings and the objects of her obsession. “I wanna be with her all day/I’m a bitch to everyone else anyway,” she shrugs on the crystalline “Strawberry Blonde.” On the frisky, muscular “Take Your Time,” she bemoans her fate of being in thrall to someone who’s no longer around: “I wanna know/what will it take to make you let me go/You don’t fade like old stick and pokes.”
Musically, Moriondo has absorbed several waves of punk praxis. On “I Want to Be With You,” she’s a maximalist, comfortable with jet-engine-intense production, and “Girl on TV” is keenly tuneful, verging on Avril Lavigne, or even Ashlee Simpson territory. But some songs on this album, like “Rly Don’t Care” and “Favorite Band,” are redolent of the earliest, and sparest, girl in red singles — direct production, and the simple joys of expressing oneself in first person, reveling in the emphatic, liberating power of the “I.”My husband and I have been married for a short time. We’re in our late 40s and are grateful to have found love; we have worked hard to understand each other deeply, especially because we were raised in different cultures: I in the United States; he in India.
The situation in India with Covid-19 is terrifying and heart-wrenching. My husband is now talking to his family once a day, as two generations are sheltering in place in one apartment outside Delhi, a center of the pandemic. His parents are vaccinated, but his sister and her family are not. As bad news pours in via FaceTime about children being orphaned or friends with both parents in the I.C.U., my husband is adamant that if his parents or sister become ill (with Covid or anything else), he will return to India to be with them. Even though my husband and I are both vaccinated, I am terrified each time he says this. In his understandably heightened state, I don’t think that he is able to see how incredibly dangerous this journey would be: to himself; to his family, whom he so wants to protect; to me (I have a chronic illness); and to our relationship.
He says that all that wouldn’t be a problem — that he would stay in a hotel so as not to add to his family’s risk level. But it’s hard for me to see how he could keep them safe without first quarantining for 10 days after flying and then going to see them, at which point any ill family members may no longer be with us. And then he would have to survive the return journey.
It doesn’t help that a friend of his recently flew back to Delhi to care for his dying mother. This friend says that it is absolutely horrible there, but there he is, being the good son and going home in a pandemic. It is no use telling my husband that tens of thousands of people have had to say goodbye via FaceTime — from as close as across the hallway — and that this devastating state of affairs is the safest (if saddest) way.5. Maggie Nelson’s “The Art of Cruelty”
This is one of those books that I picked up six times and would get through a few pages and be like, “This is really brilliant,” but it felt impenetrable at first. Then I had this one weekend where the clouds parted, and I just could see it and plowed through it. It talks about the ethics of being an artist in a way that is so brilliant, and so not orthodox or finger wagging. I think it’s one of those books you can revisit at various points of your life.
6. Her Own STV Signature Series Guitar
Part of it was inspired by Klaus Nomi’s tuxedo. And I wanted it to hit my sternum in a particular way. I am cis female, so the way that it hits the sternum and then has a little bit of a cutaway, it makes room for my breast. But just one of them. There’s only room for one! I love it. It’s the only electric that I play, with very rare exception.
I saw people’s pictures of it from the Met [in the exhibition “Play It Loud: Instruments of Rock & Roll”], because I never got a chance to go and see it in real life. Most of the time, I just kind of like quietly put my head down and work — and then every once in a while, I look up and see something that I’ve made, and it’s mysterious that it’s in the world.
7. Wim Wenders’s “Pina”
I love Pina Bausch’s work. I was really inspired by “The Rite of Spring,” where the virgin dances herself to death. There’s this one particular movement that was like, drawing your hand above your head, and then when you pull it down, your elbow goes into your stomach — sort of like you’re open and then you’re impaling yourself. It just moved me to tears. So when I worked with my friend Annie-B Parson to choreograph the Digital Witness Tour, I was like, “Can we please incorporate this?” Another big thing: I was obsessed with falling. That was another big part of the Bausch work. How do you fall and make it look violent but not hurt yourself? I’d get a rehearsal room with Annie-B and just practice falling.
8. Vintage RCA 77-D Microphone
It’s an old ribbon mic, and it just sounds so good and warm. I know these are words that might not mean that much — when people describe sound as warm, it’s reductive. But it makes things sound and feel true. I don’t mean that it has perfect fidelity. What I mean is that when you sing into this microphone, what comes back at you feels honest. My friend Cian Riordan, who mixed “Daddy’s Home,” hipped me to this mic.
9. “Hidden Brain” Podcast
There was one recently about the idea of honor culture. You know, if someone is insulting someone’s masculinity and masculinity is tied up with honor, you have to avenge that insult. A lot of these “honor societies” end up with more violence because you have to save face and there’s less ways to assimilate conflict. The premise of so much of “Hidden Brain” is that we live by the stories we tell ourselves. And as a storyteller, that idea is very liberating to me, because if we live by the stories we tell ourselves, it means that when we get new information, we can assimilate that information and tell ourselves new stories.
10. Piazza della Signoria in Florence
The first time I was there was with my mom and sisters. I remember just walking through this piazza and having a wonderful time and wonderful conversation, and really being awe-struck by the architecture and the history, and just that life was beautiful. Another time, a number of years later, I was on tour with David Byrne and we had our last show in Florence, and I remember walking through with band members and then having the best dinner of my life after. It’s one of those places where, at very pivotal points of my life, I’ve been there and only beautiful things have happened to me.It was also a remarkable coming-out year for female artists. Carole King, who split with her husband and songwriting partner, Gerry Goffin, in 1968, released “Tapestry” in 1971, and Joni Mitchell put out “Blue,” after the end of her relationship with Graham Nash. These weren’t just great albums; they were also personal statements of independence, resonant cries of defiance and vulnerability in what was still often a man’s world.
But life simply doesn’t organize itself according to 12-month periods, even when books and TV series ask it to. No project of this kind could impart the proper context without spending time, for example, on the Manson Family massacre and the disaster in Altamont, Calif., in which four people died at a free concert headlined by the Rolling Stones — two 1969 events that signaled the end of the Flower Power era. The Kent State shootings of 1970 were another such bellwether, helping set the table for the mood and music to come.
Even as it strays from 1971, this is first-rate cultural history with a killer beat. So sometimes, you bend the rules a little.
Consider Bowie, who ends up with the last word in the series. “The Man Who Sold the World” was released in the United States in 1970, but in Bowie’s native England in 1971. He recorded the bulk of “The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders From Mars,” which provides the series’s climax, in 1971, but the album was released in 1972. Similarly, the Stones recorded most of “Exile” in that villa in ’71, but they finished it in ’72, the year the album was released.Administration and intelligence officials say it will be as much the work of scientists as spies in trying to unravel how the pandemic was unleashed. The Biden administration has been working to improve its scientific expertise on the National Intelligence Council. Senior officials have told the spy agencies that their science-oriented divisions, which have been working on the issue for months, will play a prominent role in the revitalized inquiry.
The new inquiry will also tap the national labs and other scientific resources of the federal government that previously have not been directly involved in the intelligence effort, the senior administration official said.
Mr. Biden’s announcement that he will require a report from the intelligence community had elements of showmanship. In terms of domestic politics, he is trying to take the initiative on an issue Republicans have long focused on. Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, who has long argued the coronavirus could have emerged accidentally from the Wuhan lab, said Mr. Biden’s order was “better late than never, but far from adequate.”
And on an international front, Mr. Biden called out Chinese recalcitrance to cooperate on investigations both to pressure Beijing to reverse course but also to push allies to focus their own intelligence efforts on examining the theory that the coronavirus might have accidentally leaked from the lab.
Like scientists and the broader public, the intelligence community remains uncertain about the origins of the coronavirus. No definitive intelligence has emerged, and some current and former officials expressed caution that much more can be gathered in 90 days. While the Office of the Director of National Intelligence will deliver a report before summer’s end, the inquiry will most likely have to be extended.
On Wednesday, Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters he had not seen any conclusive evidence about the cause of the pandemic, but supported the effort to look deeper. “The amount of death, pain and suffering that was experienced in this pandemic is huge,” he said. “We need to know the origin, how this happened.”“It remains well within and under historic norms, and I think it needs to stay that way,” Ms. Yellen said of interest costs at a House hearing on Thursday. “That’s a metric that I am looking at to judge the sustainability of federal finances.”
Bringing growth forecasts back to Earth.
Administrations have long used overly rosy economic growth projections as a way to make their fiscal promises appear feasible. During the Trump administration, the White House envisioned years of sustained growth at 3 percent or beyond, making it possible for its $1.5 trillion tax cuts to pay for themselves and to provide a balanced budget.
The Biden White House avoids such gimmicks in its budget. It assumes that the economy will rebound to grow 5.2 percent this year and 4.3 percent in 2022 before settling to grow 1.8 percent to 2 percent for the rest of the decade. Those rates are in line with what the Congressional Budget Office has forecast.
The projections could open up the Biden administration to criticism that its policies are setting the United States up for years of sluggish growth — the same type of criticism that the Obama administration faced from Republicans. However, some economists argued on Thursday that gross domestic product was not the best gauge of the economy’s health.
“Most importantly, a lot of the benefits of the President’s policies are improving inclusion, opportunity, climate,” Jason Furman, a Harvard professor and the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers during the Obama administration, wrote on Twitter. “So even if they didn’t add anything to growth they would still likely be an improvement.”
No inflation worries here.
The biggest critique of the Biden economic agenda is whether the economy is overheating. Prices of nearly everything have been picking up in recent months, but the White House insists this is the “transitory” result of an economy that is starting to reopen. It blames logistical issues such as shortages and supply chain bottlenecks rather than more fundamental matters for signs of inflation.
The Biden budget largely sticks to this script. It projects that the Consumer Price Index will rise to 2.1 percent this year, reach 2.2 percent in 2023 and then settle in at 2.3 percent annually from 2025 through 2031.Before I met Cody Rigsby, I thought Peloton, the bourgeois exercise bike company that employs him, was about a slavish devotion to a techno-religious sect. I didn’t realize that it could also be about celebrities, accessories and the reimagining of the high school social hierarchy. Suddenly I was interested. I dislike exercise, so when I do it, I want my brain to feel as anesthetized as possible. And after I signed up for Peloton’s 30-day free trial of virtual content and hopped on the dusty Schwinn in my in-laws’ basement, I was zonked.
Logging on to one of Rigsby’s sessions feels like syncing up with a human iPhone, always swiping toward some new distraction. It keeps me just stimulated enough to alleviate the monotony and discomfort of exercise without prompting me to do any of my own mental work. Peloton is known for selling its ludicrously expensive bikes, but you don’t have to buy one to stream its classes. The company’s more significant offering is this: the total curation of the mind.
Exercise-as-entertainment is an American institution. See: Jack LaLanne, Richard Simmons, “The Biggest Loser.” The fitness guru’s sphere of influence has typically been centered on the body, with some wiggle room for related self-help psychobabble and musical appreciation. Now Peloton, which pumps out dozens of streaming classes a day, has introduced topicality and specificity to the genre. The company offers rides themed around Black History Month, Women’s History Month and the life philosophy of the television producer Shonda Rhimes.
In the extended Peloton universe, which besides the spinning classes also includes guided meditations, stretches, strength training and more, the instructors have carved out their own microgenres. The luminescent Ally Love is the queen of seated choreography. Jess King has developed a series she calls “The Jess King Experience,” incorporating campy costumes, dramatic camera angles, a DJ sidekick and extreme drama-kid vibes.
And Rigsby has the energy of a messy podcast host; as he rides, he might lead the class in a skills ranking of defunct boy bands (“Indisputably, Kevin is the hottest Backstreet Boy”) or break down the previous night’s television event. The day after Oprah’s royal exit interview, Rigsby began his class like this: “I’m bringing Meghan Markle energy into the ride, OK?”As scientists find more animal coronaviruses, they can recognize more and more pieces of SARS-CoV-2 spread out among them. Researchers have also been able to reconstruct some of the evolutionary steps by which SARS-CoV-2 evolved into a potential human pathogen while it was still infecting animals.
This pattern is probably one that’s been followed by many viruses that are now major burdens on human health. H.I.V., for example, most likely had its origin in the early 1900s, when hunters in West Africa got infected with viruses that infected chimpanzees and other primates.
But some scientists thought it was too soon to conclude something similar happened in the case of SARS-CoV-2. After all, the coronavirus first came to light in the city of Wuhan, home to the Wuhan Institute of Virology, where researchers study dozens of strains of coronaviruses collected in caves in southern China.
Still, that a top lab studying this family of viruses happens to be located in the same city where the epidemic emerged could very well be a coincidence. Wuhan is an urban center larger than New York City, with a steady flow of visitors from other parts of China. It also has many large markets dealing in wildlife brought from across China and beyond. When wild animals are kept in close quarters, viruses have an opportunity to jump from species to species, sometimes resulting in dangerous recombinations that can lead to new diseases.
That lab’s research began after another coronavirus led to the SARS epidemic in 2002. Researchers soon found relatives of that virus, called SARS-CoV, in bats, as well as civet cats, which are sold in Chinese markets. The discovery opened the eyes of scientists to all the animal coronaviruses with the potential of spilling over the species line and starting a new pandemic.
Virologists can take many measures to reduce the risk of getting infected with the viruses they study. But over the years, some accidents have happened. Researchers have gotten sick, and they’ve infected others with their experimental viruses.
In 2004, for example, a researcher at the National Institute of Virology in Beijing got infected with the coronavirus that causes SARS. She passed it on to others, including her mother, who died from the infection.“Do my Republican colleagues remember that day?” Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the majority leader, asked moments after the vote. “Do my Republican colleagues remember the savage mob calling for the execution of Mike Pence, the makeshift gallows outside the Capitol?”
“Shame on the Republican Party for trying to sweep the horrors of that day under the rug because they are afraid of Donald Trump,” he added.
Top Republicans had entertained supporting the measure as recently as last week. But they ultimately reversed course, and the House approved it with only 35 Republican votes. Leaders concluded that open-ended scrutiny of the attack would hand Democrats powerful political ammunition before the 2022 midterm elections — and enrage a former president they are intent on appeasing.
“I do not believe the additional extraneous commission that Democratic leaders want would uncover crucial new facts or promote healing,” Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said on the eve of the vote. “Frankly, I do not believe it is even designed to do that.”
Though Mr. McConnell said he would continue to support criminal cases against the rioters and stand by his “unflinching” criticisms of Mr. Trump, the commission’s defeat is likely to only embolden the former president at a time when he has once again ramped up circulation of his baseless and debunked claims. Republicans had already saved Mr. Trump from conviction in two impeachment trials.
In a matter of months, his lies have warped the views of many of his party’s supporters, who view President Biden as illegitimate. They have also inspired a rash of new voting restrictions in Republican-led states and a quixotic recount in Arizona denounced by both parties. And they have fueled efforts by Republican members of Congress to diminish and reframe the Capitol riot as a benign event akin to a “normal tourist visit.”One of the biggest fights of his career came in 1985, when Mr. Biden, then the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, led a bipartisan effort to stop the nomination of William Bradford Reynolds, then the chief of the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department under President Ronald Reagan, to become associate attorney general.
In televised hearings, Mr. Biden targeted Mr. Reynolds’s oversight of a redistricting effort in Louisiana that split a majority Black district around New Orleans in two, a move that kept Black voters in the minority. During one hearing, Mr. Biden pointed out that Mr. Reynolds had been aware that an official involved in the redistricting effort had repeatedly used a racial slur.
In a rebuke of the Reagan administration’s track record on civil rights, two Republicans from the Judiciary Committee voted with Democrats to oppose Mr. Reynolds’s nomination.
A year later, Mr. Biden opposed the nomination of Jeff Sessions for a federal judgeship in Alabama. Mr. Biden’s objections stemmed, in large part, from comments that were widely criticized as racist, but also from Mr. Sessions’s past prosecution of three Black people who were later acquitted of voting fraud charges. Faced with a split committee vote, the White House later pulled Mr. Sessions’s nomination.
By 1987, Mr. Biden had sharpened his reputation as a moderate who could win over Republicans on the grounds of what one former Senate aide called an ability “to appeal to their better angels” on civil rights matters.
That year, Mr. Biden — then in the midst of his first presidential campaign — led yet another effort to defeat a Reagan-era nominee: Robert H. Bork, whom the president had chosen for the Supreme Court. Alarmed by Mr. Bork’s past criticism of rulings on the rights of African Americans and women, Mr. Biden by that time had a well-honed playbook: He approached moderate Republicans, including Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, who could also help widen the margins on the final vote.
“We already had Bork beat,” Mark Gitenstein, a close friend of Mr. Biden’s and a former Senate aide, told The New York Times in 2019. “But Biden really wanted to get Warner because he had such stature.”As hopes fade for a bipartisan inquiry into the Capitol riot on Jan. 6, it’s increasingly clear that the Republican base remains in thrall to the web of untruths spun by Donald J. Trump — and perhaps even more outlandish lies, beyond those of the former president’s making.
A federal judge warned in an opinion yesterday that Mr. Trump’s insistence on the “big lie” — that the November election was stolen from him — still posed a serious threat. Presiding over the case of a man accused of storming Congress on Jan. 6, Judge Amy Berman Jackson of the United States District Court in Washington wrote: “The steady drumbeat that inspired defendant to take up arms has not faded away. Six months later, the canard that the election was stolen is being repeated daily on major news outlets and from the corridors of power in state and federal government, not to mention in the near-daily fulminations of the former president.”
But it’s not just the notion that the election was stolen that has caught on with the former president’s supporters. QAnon, an outlandish and ever-evolving conspiracy theory spread by some of Mr. Trump’s most ardent followers, has significant traction with a segment of the public — particularly Republicans and Americans who consume news from far-right sources.
Those are the findings of a poll released today by the Public Religion Research Institute and the Interfaith Youth Core, which found that 15 percent of Americans say they think that the levers of power are controlled by a cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles, a core belief of QAnon supporters. The same share said it was true that “American patriots may have to resort to violence” to depose the pedophiles and restore the country’s rightful order.Plenty of history was made when the Academy Award nominations were announced Monday morning, but it just wouldn’t be the Oscars without a few swerves and head-scratching omissions. Below, the Projectionist surveys the biggest surprises and most high-profile snubs.
Who leads ‘Judas and the Black Messiah’?
When two men or two women colead an Oscar contender, you can bet that savvy strategists will position one as a lead and one as a supporting role in a bid to spread the wealth and get them both nominated. That was the original plan for “Judas and the Black Messiah,” where Lakeith Stanfield was deemed the lead, mostly so he could get out of the way of Daniel Kaluuya, who’s been racking up supporting-actor wins all seasons. But in a big surprise, Stanfield picked up more votes in the supporting-actor category, so both men earned their nominations there. It does raise the question, though: If Stanfield and Kaluuya are both supporting actors, then who exactly is this movie supposed to be about?
Aaron Sorkin gets the ‘Argo’ treatment.
Though “The Trial of the Chicago 7” is one of the most nominated Oscar contenders and Aaron Sorkin picked up a nomination for his screenplay, he was left out of the best-director lineup entirely as “Another Round” director Thomas Vinterberg nabbed the spot most expected would go to Sorkin. Still, plenty of history was made in that category: The “Nomadland” director Chloé Zhao became the first Chinese woman and first woman of color to be nominated for best director, and alongside “Promising Young Woman” filmmaker Emerald Fennell, this is the first time in Oscar history that two women were nominated in the best-director category at the same time.“If Moscow is responsible, this brazen act of utilizing emails associated with the U.S. government demonstrates that Russia remains undeterred despite sanctions following the SolarWinds attack,” Mr. Schiff said, referring to the attack last year on the software supply chain. “Those sanctions gave the administration flexibility to tighten the economic screws further if necessary — it now appears necessary.”
Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, echoed Mr. Schiff in calling for stronger consequences. “We must make clear to Russia — and any other adversaries — that they will face consequences for this and any other malicious cyberactivity,” he said.
Mr. Biden has already said that Russia’s cyberaggression would be part of the tense conversation he planned to have with Mr. Putin on June 16 in Geneva, at a moment when the two nations are at odds over Ukraine, human rights and Russia’s new generation of nuclear weapons.
Some analysts praised the way the United States government was responding.
“If you look at the steps the administration is taking to both defend and deter, which are the two key things we need to do here, they are going in the right direction in a significant way we have never seen before,” said Tom Burt, a senior Microsoft official who worked with the administration on several of the recent hacks. “But they are also facing a greater threat than we have ever seen.”
But some intelligence officials argued that sanctions and more covert actions — if there have been any — were showing few signs of deterring Mr. Putin. And so Mr. Biden is seeing the same kind of robust debate inside his own White House over whether more forceful responses are necessary, whether by exposing Mr. Putin’s financial entanglements, or by conducting retaliatory cyberstrikes.
Mr. Biden has shown caution, saying last month that he “chose to be proportionate” in response to the SolarWinds attack because he did not want “to kick off a cycle of escalation and conflict with Russia.”
Some cybersecurity experts now argue that Mr. Biden should have responded more aggressively.
“The U.S. tends to get too hung up on proportionality,” said James A. Lewis, one such expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “We were too cautious in responding to SolarWinds and that turned out to be a mistake. The way you set boundaries is through action, not by sending them nasty, diplomatic notes.”In July 2005, Specialist Christopher Velez’s Army infantry unit received an urgent call for backup from a village in Uruzgan Province in Afghanistan: A group of American soldiers had gotten into a firefight with Taliban fighters.
“One of our guys who got wounded, he didn’t come back out of that village, and someone had to go retrieve him,” Mr. Velez told me on a recent warm morning. “We weren’t sure if he was alive, so I raised my hand.”
During the rescue attempt, a grenade exploded a few feet from Mr. Velez, badly wounding him. While he managed to take down the enemy fighter who threw the explosive, he couldn’t make it to the captive soldier, who was a friend of his. Later, Mr. Velez discovered his friend had been killed. Mr. Velez earned a Purple Heart.At the very end of a Grammys ceremony that did its best to pretend like the Recording Academy has always supported and centered Black artists, women and especially Black women, Billie Eilish was put in an impossible position that we’ve seen too many times before. Awarded record of the year for “Everything I Wanted,” a mid tempo in-betweener of a track, only a year after sweeping the top four categories with her debut album, Eilish could only gush over Megan Thee Stallion.
“This is really embarrassing for me,” Eilish, a white teenager who — like many in her generation and beyond — worships Black culture, said. “You are a queen, I want to cry thinking about how much I love you.” She went on. It was uncomfortably reminiscent of Adele praising Beyoncé when “25” beat “Lemonade” for album of the year in 2017, and also of that infamous Macklemore text to Kendrick Lamar. Some online bristled at the performative white guilt on display, while others applauded Eilish’s apparently sincere fandom. But only a stubbornly old-fashioned voting body that still just honors rap when it’s convenient could be blamed. JOE COSCARELLIIn the nearby Clayton County School District, Morcease Beasley, the superintendent, began looking closely at the rise of extended stays in the county in 2019, and he now considers their growing prevalence in Atlanta and in Clayton County — where the population of almost 300,000 is 73 percent Black, with a 16 percent poverty rate — a full-blown crisis, and one directly tied to the disproportionate harm of bad credit in Black communities. In his district, there are 21 regular school-bus stops at hotels, motels or extended stays. It is Georgia’s fifth-largest school district, and among its 55,000 students, about 2,000 are classified as homeless every year. “Tenants are penalized for life happening to them, so much so that you can’t recover,” he says. “Once their credit is damaged, we don’t give people another chance.”
As rents in downtown Atlanta skyrocketed, rents shot up in Clayton County too, unaccompanied by enough new construction of affordable housing. “When you see more extended stays than nice town homes or homes being built, something is wrong,” Beasley told me. “It’s not the housing projects where [we] are seeing an increase. It’s the extended stays we are seeing.” He sees a direct connection between the intensified surveillance of poor people by the credit bureaus and the explosion in construction of new extended stays. “They are providing a housing opportunity for people to get off the streets because rental companies won’t rent to them because of stains on their credit reports. The way credit and evictions are placed on credit files is creating a de facto form of segregation.”
The first Friday this past February was a good one for Niffenegger. The mail brought her $600 stimulus check — the first money she had received since Dec. 31. Right away she went to a check-cashing place. It levied a fee of $11, but she walked out with a couple of hundred dollars in cash, with the rest put on a prepaid debit card. She went to the grocery store and took Brownie to the groomer for the first time in months. A few days later, we talked on Zoom. It was the most relaxed I had seen her in months. She showed off a bottle of retinol cream — a splurge she hoped might smooth over tiny acne scars on her cheeks, and smoked a thin, strawberry-flavored cigar, a Racer, which she bought in packs of 10 for $1.50. She spoke of finding a regular therapist to talk to about her life, instead of the psychiatrist she had been seeing, who only prescribed her meds and never asked her about anything.
There was more good news. Billions in federal emergency rent assistance were being made available, so her back rent might get paid. An office manager caught her outside walking Brownie a few days earlier. He told her to come to the office to fill out the paperwork. She had yet to add up the total. I did a rough calculation: $9,888. She threw her head back in relief. “Whoa.” It would bring an end to more than a year of struggle. “I’ve just been on autopilot. I’ve had these spurts of extreme anxiety. I would have this twitch, and it would go like this,” she said, jerking her head to the left two times fast. “And I’d have it all day long. I’d be on the bus and I’d be doing it, looking like a tweaker or something. It’s where I carry my anxiety.”
Even if her back rent were paid, she still needed work. She would probably try call centers, the only type of work she has been able to find in recent years. But she needed a medical procedure, which would require sick leave, and she had never heard of a call-center job that offered health insurance, let alone paid sick leave. Room 323 was hers until at least March 31. But then what?
On the morning of Feb. 11, Niffenegger found a notice on her door. “Rent is Past Due.” It had seven boxes, and the third was checked in black Sharpie: “3 Days Past Due Need to Discuss Payment Arrangement.” But with so much money available in federal assistance, the Siegel eviction strategy in her case was shifting. Siegel stopped arguing that Niffenegger was a “guest” with a “periodic rental term” — and therefore subject to being evicted, despite the nationwide eviction moratorium put in place by the Centers for Disease Control. In a letter that accompanied her application for rental assistance, a regional manager for the Siegel Group Nevada wrote, “Suzy Niffenegger is considered a resident here.” The amount owed through March: $12,818.50. By late March, the Siegel Group had received more than $1.5 million in federal rental assistance for locations in Clark County identified by The Times, according to county records; the company says it applies all rental-assistance funds to cover tenants who owe money and have been approved for assistance.
Through the end of the winter, Niffenegger was still waiting for approval. “Had a rough week but coming out of it!” she emailed me on March 19. “Xo Suz n Brownies.” Later that same night, she sent another email: “Is like I have a tube in my chest and someone pumps it full of air and walks away. And I am stuck alone with nothing to help me.” In early April, her weekly unemployment benefits of $525 started again. “Wow, I can go down and buy dog food for Brownie,” she told me. When she logged into her Clark County Social Service account for updates on her rental application, she received this message: “Your application is waiting to be assigned to a caseworker.”The roots of the modern gross-out comedy can be traced to EC Comics and Mad Magazine, giddily demented publications devoured by kids in the middle of the last century, some of whom went on to create movies like “Animal House” and “American Pie.” This led to an arms race of vulgarity with increasingly rote bursts of taboo-busting along with hilarious landmarks: the contagious vomiting in “Stand By Me,” the hair gel in “There’s Something About Mary,” and the wildly influential “Jackass” franchise. (One of its creators, Jeff Tremaine, is a producer of “Bad Trip.”)
“Bad Trip” is firmly in this tradition, but updated for an era in which reality and fiction increasingly blur. It’s no surprise that Nathan Fielder and Sacha Baron Cohen, who have used the tools of documentary features to expand the palette of comedy, helped consult. “Bad Trip,” which has elements of a buddy movie, a romance and a prank show, spills every imaginable bodily fluid and stomps on delicate sensibilities, but manages to do this with warmth and earned sentiment.
Key to its success is the benevolently mischievous charisma of Eric Andre, an anarchic performer who always seems on the verge of accidental destruction, whether in his standup or his brilliantly experimental talk show. He moves through “Bad Trip” like a giant pane of glass in a silent movie. His fragility earns your sympathy right from the start.
In the first scene, his character, Chris, working at a Florida carwash, chats with a customer when he spots in the distance a woman who was his high school crush. Mouth agape, soupy music in the background, he explains how nervous he feels seeing her, before accidentally stepping toward a vacuum that suddenly sucks off his jump suit. He’s left naked as the girl approaches. He and the woman are actors, but the stranger watching this unfold is not, and this entire stunt is engineered to find comedy in his reaction while setting the gears of the plot in motion. It’s secondhand cringe comedy.An expansive, $195 billion bill aimed at bolstering the nation’s competitive edge against China hit a snag in the Senate on Friday, after a small group of Republicans objected to its swift passage, pushing a vote on the bipartisan legislation until next month.
Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the majority leader, who had pressed to approve the measure before the Senate departed for its weeklong Memorial Day break, abruptly changed course on Friday in the face of the Republican objections, saying he would move to complete the measure in early June. The bill, which Mr. Schumer co-authored with Senator Todd Young, Republican of Indiana, is expected to pass overwhelmingly with bipartisan support.
The legislation had moved swiftly through the Senate, powered by rising fears among members of both parties that the United States is losing its economic and technological edge against China. But the last-minute delay followed nearly 24 hours of legislative disarray, beginning with an intensive round of closed-door haggling in which senators made significant changes to the sprawling bill, and ending with a midnight airing of grievances from a small group of conservative senators who complained they had not had time to review its contents.
Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, joined by a small group of Republicans, gummed up the legislative process late Thursday night with an objection, blocking Democrats from moving ahead with the bill. Speaking from the Senate floor early Friday morning, he complained that senators had not been given enough time to look through the legislation, and that none of his favored priorities — specifically one to fund a wall at the southern border — had been included.Romy Gill didn’t work with canned jackfruit until she started research for her cookbook, “Zaika: Vegan Recipes From India.” Gill, a chef who was raised in Burnpur, West Bengal, had never really needed to: The fruit grew wild around her home, along with pomegranates, mangoes and guava. Fresh jackfruits look like gigantic, scaly lumps — a family of dragons asleep in the branches. A single fruit can reach 100 pounds, and even the small ones tend to be heavy and unwieldy. “It’s very tough when you cut it down fresh; it’s a lot of work,” she says. Every time Gill’s mother and her friends picked one, they cut it up and shared the fruit among themselves, working together, leaving the rest to keep ripening on the tree.
Ripe jackfruit has some sweetness and a powerful smell. Fans love its intense, tropical, pineapple-like flavor. But unripe, the fruit is far more vegetal and almost plain, which can make it seem as if it’s shaping itself to suit your dish, adapting itself continuously to your needs in the kitchen. Though the tree is native to Southeast Asia, in the last few years jackfruit has become popular in the United States as a vegan alternative to al pastor, pulled pork and other meaty dishes, making the most of its yielding but structured texture. Gill sees the appeal, but she never thought of the jackfruit as a replacement for anything else. Jackfruit was its own pleasure, with its own attributes and its own set of recipes. Gill’s mother and her friends would use the unripe fruit to make achaar — different kinds of hot, oily pickles. They dried pieces of it on cloth in the sunshine, preserving it for the off-seasons to rehydrate in curries with fish. Together, they taught one another their techniques and shared meals.
Jackfruit was its own pleasure, with its own attributes and its own set of recipes.
Gill’s father worked at a local steel plant, and the workers came from as far as Gujarat and Rajasthan, Andra Pradhesh and Kashmir — the close-knit colleagues were multicultural, and so were their foods. Gill’s mother was Punjabi, and at home, she made vegan dishes alongside meat and fish, from gram-flour pancakes and papaya parathas to fried okra with chaat masala. “Our Punjabi food at home was very lentil- and vegetable-based, but we ate everything,” Gill says. “When there was a celebration — say, my birthday, or a friend coming over — we would have meat or fish, but when it wasn’t there, I didn’t miss it.” Gill’s mother often sautéed jackfruit with onions and tomatoes to make a simple vegetable dish as part of a quick dinner. This meal is one of many of the family’s favorite dishes lovingly recorded in Gill’s cookbook: a jackfruit sabzi seasoned with a few spices and amchur, or unripe-mango powder, to give it depth and tang.Len Bias, a Bouquet of Flowers, and Ms. Brooks
By Michael Collier
He arrives in the middle of her reading. She
has to stop and, taking the flowers he’s brought, kisses
the beautiful young man whose yellow socks are her
dowdy sweater’s antithesis. What’s said between them is killed
by applause, but not his smile, which is the smile of a boy
standing in the silence he’s created, and
not her magnified stare, which says she
understands why he’s arrived late, is
already leaving, and that he is sorry.
Reginald Dwayne Betts is a poet and lawyer. He created the Million Book Project, an initiative to curate microlibraries and install them in prisons across the country. His latest collection of poetry, ‘‘Felon,’’ explores the post-incarceration experience. In 2019, he won a National Magazine Award in Essays and Criticism for his article in The Times Magazine about his journey from teenage carjacker to aspiring lawyer. Michael Collier’s latest collection of poetry is the forthcoming ‘‘The Missing Mountain’’ (University of Chicago Press, 2021).Jerome Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, has repeatedly cited racial and other disparities as a reason for trying to revive the economy as quickly and completely as possible. People at the bottom of the income ladder enjoyed just a few years of decent gains before the pandemic cut the recovery prematurely short. The faster we can get back there, the sooner they can begin to enjoy those gains again. “Those who have historically been left behind stand the best chance of prospering in a strong economy with plentiful job opportunities,” Powell said in a speech at a National Community Reinvestment Coalition conference in early May. “Our recent history highlights both the benefits of a strong economy and the severe costs of a weak one.”
Low-income families are starting in a much different place from where they were in the last recovery. Indeed, American households are, on average, in the best financial shape in decades. Debt levels, excluding home mortgages, are lower than before the pandemic. Delinquencies and defaults are down, too. And Americans in aggregate are sitting on a mountain of cash: $6 trillion in savings as of March, more than four times as much as before the pandemic.
Averages, of course, don’t tell the full story. The wealthy, and even the merely affluent, have done exceedingly well during the pandemic. They have, by and large, kept their jobs. They have seen the value of their stock portfolios soar. And they have spent less on vacations, restaurant meals and other services. For those at the other end of the economic spectrum, the picture looks very different: Many of them lost their jobs, had no investments to start with and needed every penny of the aid they received to meet basic living expenses, if they managed to get that aid at all.
Those diverging fortunes are what commentators have called the “K-shaped recovery” — rapid gains for some, collapse for others. But that narrative is incomplete. Millions of people have been financially devastated, but many more have not been. Most low-wage workers kept their jobs, or got them back relatively quickly. Many of them will emerge from the pandemic in better financial shape than they entered it, thanks in large part to successive rounds of government aid. Low- and middle-income families came out of the last recession mired in debt, and spent years trying to climb out of that hole. That reality colored their financial decisions long after the recession was over: whether to buy a house, whether to go to college, whether to take a chance on that new job or that new career or that new city. This time around, many people will have the opportunity to make their choices free of that burden.
The lesson of both this crisis and the last one is that policy matters. In the last recession, an initially fairly robust response petered out too quickly, leading to a decade of stagnation. That hasn’t happened this time, but it still could. Unless the April jobs numbers are indicative of a broader slowdown — something hardly any forecaster thinks is especially likely — the aggregate economic statistics are going to start looking very strong in the coming months. “There is going to be a tendency to look at those numbers and say, ‘Mission accomplished,’ before it is time,” says Nela Richardson, chief economist for ADP, a payroll-processing firm.
That is what happened a decade ago. But this time, far more people are paying attention. Inside the White House, economists have zeroed in on the labor-force participation rate among Black women as a key measure of economic health. Powell, at the Fed, now talks in virtually every public appearance about race and inequality — topics that previous Fed chairs typically tiptoed around or avoided altogether. Journalists who covered the aftermath of the last recession are more likely to question the notion that the economy is good just because the unemployment rate is low.
Kristen Broady, a fellow in the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program, says that people are finally paying attention after years of being preached to that public-policy discussions should focus less on aggregate statistics. Recently, journalists and policymakers have been bringing up the subject with her, rather than the other way around. That, as much as anything, is cause for optimism.
“This is the first time,” she says, “that I have hope.”The summer I was 26 years old, I moved into my parents’ home in the Chicago suburbs because I could no longer care for myself.
I had been severely depressed for most of my life, but that summer five years ago, even the most mundane tasks became insurmountable. I spent days on the couch where I rarely spoke, my mind so dull I struggled to form words. I lay awake at night thinking, I can’t go on like this.
Some people experience episodic depression, but since the onset of my illness in early childhood, I sank far and fast and never truly surfaced. By age 10, I found myself overcome with inexplicable dread, so ill at ease I could hardly sit through a television show. By the time I was a teenager, I awoke every morning to an immutable sadness and sobbed on my bedroom floor. Though I was once an excellent student, I struggled to make it through class. Finally, at age 16, I dropped out of high school.But his career often mirrored that of Elvis in its unabashed exploitation of music that Black and rural people made as a way of life. A child of the suburbs, Fahey attributed portions of his first album to Blind Joe Death, as though from the Delta himself. He spun tall tales about learning the blues from a Black man he christened with a racial slur. And he brandished the marketing tag American Primitive, suggesting the folk styles he lifted were compelling if not sophisticated. It is the “noble savage” of acoustic guitar.
Decades later, modern solo guitar labels often linger in such shadows. Since 2005, the label Tompkins Square has surveyed the landscape with an ongoing series of compilations titled “Imaginational Anthem”; released between 2005 and 2012, the first five volumes spotlighted less than 10 women or people of color despite featuring 60 players. (Recent editions have been decidedly more inclusive.) After almost three dozen titles, VDSQ has released just four titles not made by white men; the label’s owner Steve Lowenthal said that, after not receiving demos from women or people of color for half a decade, he’s finally getting them.
“I’m so used to white men, it’s like wallpaper,” Raymond said. “When you do encounter another woman playing guitar like this, you want to hang out.”
Before the modern music market existed, however, the guitar was far more inclusive. In 18th-century Europe, it was one of the few instruments deemed acceptable for women. In the United States near the end of the 19th century, the diminutive parlor guitar became a necessity for women entertaining guests. Born around then in North Carolina, Elizabeth Cotten — a Black woman who literally turned the guitar upside down — helped pioneer the slowly loping style that became Fahey’s calling card. A recent compendium in the globe-trotting series “The Secret Museum of Mankind” even juxtaposes century-old recordings from India, Italy, Greece and Ghana, reiterating how many traditions have shaped the guitar’s development.
Tashi Dorji, however, knew nothing about this pan-cultural pedigree. Raised in Bhutan, the small Himalayan nation landlocked by China and India, he understood the instrument as the domain of “endless English and American men,” like Eric Clapton and Eddie Van Halen. Those were the licks he started to learn on the nylon-string guitar his mother purchased from a Swiss expatriate.Kristin writes: Every time my fiancé, Gabe, blows his nose, he opens the tissue to inspect it. He claims it’s to ensure his snot looks normal. Please order him to stop, unless he has specific health concerns, like a cold.
Our bodies are existential mysteries, maybe now more than ever. You think you know them. But sometimes I stop and remember that I am full of secret chambers and tunnels that I will never see, that will never be touched by sunlight (I hope), and it makes me want to vomit (existentially). And if I did vomit (actually), of course I would look at it. When something erupts from that abyss our brain rides around in, you have to look. I refuse to deny Gabe’s right to see what he’s made of. His gross body, his gross rules. But luckily you have a room in your house devoted to private secretions (hint: not the conservatory), and I would suggest he try to keep his investigations there.President Biden delivered an emotional speech on Friday honoring the sacrifice of combat veterans ahead of the planned withdrawal later this year from Afghanistan — and recalled his many trips to a battle-scarred country he called “God-forsaken.”
The president, addressing service members in a hangar at Joint Base Langley-Eustis in Virginia, set out to honor the troops ahead of the Memorial Day weekend. He singled out the contributions of soldiers who served repeated tours overseas, and their families, whom he described as the “backbone” of the military.
But he frequently wandered off script, settling on the subject most prone to pull him from a teleprompter: his late son Beau Biden, who was awarded the Bronze Star for bravery in Iraq.
“I shouldn’t be talking so much about my son, but I’m not going to apologize,” said Mr. Biden.
The president’s speech came a day after the Pentagon confirmed that United States troops and their NATO allies intend to be out of Afghanistan by early to mid-July, well ahead of Mr. Biden’s Sept. 11 withdrawal deadline to end America’s longest war.In an era when new albums are typically stuffed with content to maximize their streaming yield, Rodrigo’s and Cole’s albums are unusual: “Sour” has just 11 tracks, and “The Off-Season” 12. By comparison, Morgan Wallen’s country blockbuster “Dangerous: The Double Album” has 30 songs in its standard edition, and it opened with 240 million clicks in January.
Among the other chart factoids for “Sour”: Rodrigo is only the second artist named Olivia to score a No. 1 album in the six-decade history of the Billboard 200, after two in the 1970s by Olivia Newton-John — “If You Love Me, Let Me Know” (1974) and “Have You Never Been Mellow” (1975).
Cole’s “The Off-Season” falls to No. 2 in its second week out, while “Scaled and Icy,” the new album by the alt-pop duo Twenty One Pilots, opens at No. 3 with the equivalent of 75,000 sales, including 33 million streams. Wallen’s “Dangerous,” still a steady hit after 20 weeks, holds at No. 4, and the Memphis rapper Moneybagg Yo is in fifth place with “A Gangsta’s Pain.”There are early indications that the pandemic is taking a serious, and potentially long-lasting, toll on our oral health. In September, even before the winter coronavirus surge in the United States, an American Dental Association survey found that more than half of the dentists who responded were seeing an increase in stress-related conditions among patients. These included teeth grinding, cracked and chipped teeth and symptoms of temporomandibular joint dysfunction, like jaw pain. More than a quarter of the dentists reported an increase in cavities and gum disease — quite likely a result of changes in people’s diets and hygiene. Americans have also had difficulty accessing dental care: A report last month by the CareQuest Institute for Oral Health, a nonprofit research and advocacy group, found that six million adults had lost their dental insurance because of the pandemic, and more than one in 10 had delayed getting care because of cost, lack of insurance, fear of exposure to the virus or a combination of those factors.
A major challenge for providers is that routine dental procedures generate aerosols, which increase the risk of viral transmission. How much is unclear. (“There are currently no data available to assess the risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission during dental practice,” according to the C.D.C., which offers guidance for dental settings on its website.) As precautions, many clinics have added space and time between appointments, reducing the number of patients they can see. That and other issues have worsened longstanding disparities in who receives oral health care: By mid-April, almost 60 percent of private practices were operating at full capacity, compared with roughly 35 percent of their public counterparts, according to A.D.A. polling.
But the pandemic has also inspired remote adaptations — ones that could help address these inequities. “We had to start thinking differently about how we were going to meet the needs of those children and families” who couldn’t come to a clinic or be treated at a school or other community site, says Antonina Capurro, the Nevada state dental health officer, “and how we were going to reach them.”
Throughout the history of modern medicine, the mouth has, rather strangely, been viewed as separate from the rest of the body. Preventive visits to a dentist typically are not covered by health insurance, unlike annual visits to a primary-care physician. Only within the past few decades have researchers begun to appreciate the extent to which oral health is inextricable from a person’s overall physical, emotional and psychological well-being. Gum disease has been linked to a wide array of disorders, including diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular disease, premature birth and even respiratory infections. Along with tooth decay, it is also associated with poor socioeconomic outcomes. Children who have cavities, for instance, tend to miss more school days and fare worse academically than those who don’t.“It doesn’t matter how anti-establishment, anti-imperialist I am, change won’t be in my lifetime,” Mustafa said. “So all that I can do is within me. I try to keep people alive. And I try to make sure that we’re protected.”
As a young person, while many of his peers were finding themselves in hip-hop, Mustafa gravitated to folk music and earthy singer-songwriters: Nick Drake, Richie Havens, Joni Mitchell, Leonard Cohen. “I remember being younger and people were mad, like, ‘This guy’s always emotional,’” he said with a laugh. “But the truth is, I was just exploring a sentimental language, you know what I mean?”
During the making of “When Smoke Rises,” Mustafa was taken by how Sufjan Stevens memorialized his mother on the 2015 album “Carrie & Lowell.” Mustafa pulled out his phone to read a letter he sent to Stevens via an intermediary, part mash note, part confessional. “I dreamed to bridge the worlds of grief and glory,” he wrote, confiding in Stevens about the ghosts hovering over his music. “The deaths were complicated and violent and unfair, but still they are my own. And the way I reflect them can be all that and still beautiful, as you have so brilliantly displayed. Nothing in vain.” (He hasn’t yet heard back.)
Tensions in Regent Park are ongoing; Los Angeles has become a safe retreat for Mustafa, a place where he can explore his creativity. When he was first exploring the studio, as he was struggling to find the proper voice and tone for his stories, he fell into songwriting for others, collaborating on tracks by the Weeknd and Camila Cabello, as well as the Shawn Mendes-Justin Bieber hit “Monster.” But writing about anyone but himself was, in fact, a distraction.
“I wasn’t being daring at all,” he said. “I just couldn’t bear the thought of seeing anything, explaining anything in its full truth.”
Eventually, in 2019, he went to London to work with the producer Simon Hessman on demos he’d been chipping away at for a couple of years. Later, they were joined by Mustafa’s friend Frank Dukes, who has produced for Post Malone, Rihanna and the Weeknd. Dukes had been probing Smithsonian Folkways anthologies of Sudanese and Egyptian music, some samples of which ended up on “When Smoke Rises,” bridging Mustafa’s modern-day tales to the past. Mustafa also includes vocal samples of friends who have died, and of his mother, his way of inscribing them into history.In 1975, Mumps became one of the first bands to play CBGB, opening for Television. They went on to become staples at that club, as well as at Max’s Kansas City, and toured the United States, even opening some shows for Cheap Trick and Van Halen. “They were one of the most interesting bands ever to perform at CBGBs,” the Talking Heads’ drummer Chris Frantz wrote in an email. “Their music was a unique mix of sweet and naughty.”
Yet, in their six years together (with a lineup that shifted a few times), Mumps never earned an album deal, managing to issue just two indie singles.
Now, nearly five decades later, in a music industry teeming with out L.G.B.T.Q. acts, Mumps are getting another shot. On Friday, the label Omnivore Recordings, known for releasing rare material from artists like Buck Owens and Alex Chilton, is releasing “Rock & Roll This, Rock & Roll That,” a 23-song compilation of the band’s work that’s the first to feature material from Loud! The release also marks a sad milestone: the 20th anniversary of Lance’s death of complications from hepatitis C.
The roots of Loud! began at Santa Barbara High School, where Hoffman first met Loud in art class. “I was the teacher’s pet, and Lance was the funniest guy in the room,” said Hoffman, who played keyboards in the band.Even a smaller percentage of exhausted ballots can be decisive in a close race. One analogous case is the special mayoral election in San Francisco in 2018, when London Breed narrowly prevailed by one percentage point. In that race, 9 percent of ballots didn’t rank either Ms. Breed or the runner-up, Mark Leno.
It is impossible to know for sure, but there are plausible reasons to believe that Mr. Leno would have won the election if every voter had ranked one of the two final candidates. Mr. Leno, for example, won transferred votes — those cast by voters who had not selected either Ms. Breed or Mr. Leno as their first choice — by a margin of 69 percent to 31 percent; he would have won if the exhausted ballots had expressed a similar preference.
The large number of exhausted ballots in ranked-choice elections might be a bit of a surprise, given that the format is supposed to ensure that voters don’t waste their ballots by supporting nonviable candidates. In the archetypal case, ranked choice might allow voters to support a minor-party candidate, like Ralph Nader, without any risk of endangering their preferred major-party candidate, whom they could safely rank second.
But voters won’t always have the same clarity about which candidates will make the final round of voting as would have had in the 2000 presidential election, when Mr. Nader finished third as the Green Party candidate with almost three million votes. Even without ranked-choice voting, primary elections often feature fluid, multicandidate fields in which clear favorites are not nearly as obvious as a Democrat versus a Republican in the general election.
For good measure, ranked-choice voting tends to expand the number of options available to voters, clouding what might have otherwise been a relatively clear final choice. Interest groups and ideological factions have less incentive to coalesce behind a single candidate in a ranked-choice election, since they know their voters can still consolidate behind a single candidate on Election Day.
Partly as a result, the number of exhausted ballots tends to be highest in wide-open races, in which voters have the least clarity about the likely final matchup.Osaka, they said, refused to engage with them, leaving them with no choice but to pursue significant penalties to help ensure that Osaka did not gain an advantage over her competitors.
“We want to underline that rules are in place to ensure all players are treated exactly the same, no matter their stature, beliefs or achievement,” the officials stated. “As a sport there is nothing more important than ensuring no player has an unfair advantage over another, which unfortunately is the case in this situation if one player refuses to dedicate time to participate in media commitments while the others all honor their commitments.”
Regardless of whatever mental health struggles Osaka may suffer from, her sister, Mari, a former professional tennis player, essentially gave support in a post on Reddit to the argument tennis officials made. In the post, Mari Osaka said that the decision not to attend news conferences was driven largely by Naomi’s struggles to win on clay courts. Mari Osaka stated that every time her sister plays in a clay court tournament the press asks her about her poor record on the surface, which puts negative thoughts in her head.
The French Open is played on clay, so, she explained, her sister decided not to attend news conferences so she could “block everything out. No talking to people who is going to put doubt in her mind.”
Mari Osaka’s post seemed to raise questions about whether her sister suffers from depression. “she’s protecting her mind hence why it’s called mental health. So many people are picky on this term thinking you have to have depression or some sort of disorder to be able to use the term mental health.”
In her post Monday, Osaka described herself as an introverted person who suffers from anxiety before she has to speak with the press. She said she wrote to tournament officials privately to apologize for the distraction she had created and offered to speak with them after the tournament about potentially changing what she described as “outdated” rules requiring players to engage with the media.
After her match Sunday, Victoria Azarenka, a two-time Grand Slam champion, said she disagreed with Osaka’s position. “Press and players and the tournaments comes hand in hand. We are helping you guys,” she said. “I think it’s very important in developing our sport, in promoting our sport.” Azarenka added that she felt there were moments when the media did need to be more compassionate.NASHVILLE — For the first 13 years of my life, my country was at war in Vietnam. Every night, my father would watch the news — sometimes Huntley and Brinkley, sometimes Walter Cronkite — and almost every night I sat on the floor next to him while he smoked a cigarette and swirled the ice in his glass. I loved the scent of him, the smell of smoke and sweat and whiskey. I would lean against his warm leg, only half listening to the news.
I don’t remember how old I was when I first noticed the casualty counts that closed those broadcasts, but at some point it dawned on me that boys in America grow up and go to war, and some of them die there. American boys had been dying in Vietnam for my entire life, and I assumed they would always be dying there.
My father never went to war. He was too young for World War II and too old for Vietnam. During the Korean War, he was in the Army Reserve or the National Guard; I don’t remember which. He was prepared to go when called, but he was never called. He once remarked that his was the only Alabama unit to spend the entire Korean War in Alabama, and he regarded this circumstance impassively, with neither relief nor dismay. It was simply the luck of the draw.
Young men of my father’s generation grew up during wartime and generally expected to serve when their turn came. No generation since has felt the same way. There are compelling reasons for that shift — the protracted catastrophe in Vietnam not least — but I’m less interested in why it happened than in what it tells us about our country now. What does it mean to live in a nation with no expectation for national service? With no close-hand experience of national sacrifice?Recently, I asked my chiropractor if he had received his Covid vaccine. He said no. He and his assistant do wear masks, but they see patients in a small room with a closed door. When I asked him again several weeks later, he said: “Well, we have to talk. I am not going to get the vaccination. I don’t believe in vaccinations. My family and I are all healthy and see no need for it.” On my way out, I asked his assistant if she had been vaccinated, and she replied: “No, and I don’t plan to. It’s a personal decision.” I called the next morning to explain that I wouldn’t be coming back to their practice because they weren’t vaccinated. Later that day, the chiropractor called and asked me if I would please respect his privacy and not tell anyone else about his decision not to be vaccinated.
I was appalled. Isn’t this an unethical request? He is a health care provider during a pandemic. Shouldn’t his patients be aware that he has chosen not to get a vaccine, as recommended by the C.D.C.? Doesn’t his personal decision affect others in a potentially dangerous way? By asking me to hide his decision, doesn’t he make me an accomplice to his duplicity? Name Withheld
A number of questions have recently arisen about how we should negotiate a social and professional world in which vaccination against Covid-19 is both common and contested. What’s clear is that many people think that getting vaccinated is simply about protecting yourself. And we do have what a philosopher would call a reason of prudence for getting vaccinated — a reason that’s more compelling the older we are. Yet there’s also a public-spirited, altruistic reason for getting vaccinated: There’s now bountiful evidence that vaccinated people are much less likely to transmit the virus to others.
When masks were first recommended, medical authorities emphasized their benefits not to the wearer but to others; only after some months, and additional studies, was it made plain that masks helped both parties. It’s the opposite story with vaccines. Vaccine approval depended on trials designed to show benefits to recipients, so officials were at first hesitant to say what now is clear: that they help others too. The broader point is one I’ve made before: When many people accept a small inconvenience — like wearing a mask or getting vaccinated — we can achieve something of great value to us all.Photo illustration by Bráulio Amado Talk Alice Waters Says People Who Call Her Elitist Just Don’t Get It
There’s a paradox at the heart of Alice Waters’s career. Through her beloved restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., Chez Panisse, which this year celebrates its 50th anniversary as the origin point of what came to be called California cuisine, and through her many elegant cookbooks with their simple recipes emphasizing seasonal ingredients, and through her Edible Schoolyard Project, which has taught countless children about sustainable food and agriculture, Waters, who is 77, has advocated and come to personify something that she both is and isn’t. All those things I just mentioned express belief in the value of organic balance, elegance, refinement and the wisdom of nature. They’re imbued with respect for community and interconnection. They share an aesthetic of harmony and purity, one that has profoundly affected our country’s food culture. (Your favorite farm-to-table restaurant and farmers’ market are in the Waters spirit.) But the twist is that you can’t put all that beauty into the world — let alone sustain it — without rough grit, willfulness and an unyielding perspective on what constitutes right living. “It’s about sensual experiences,” says Waters, whose newest book, “We Are What We Eat: A Slow Food Manifesto,” will be published June 1. “Everything I do is about that: opening up the senses and experiencing life in the fullest.”
Hi, how are you? [Laughs.] That’s always been an existential question for me. When people say, “How are you?” I stop and think, How am I? “Oh, great! Beautiful day!” I’ve never been able to do that.
We’ll see what that augurs for this interview! So it’s clear to me from reading your work and following your career that you’re a person driven by your senses. As you’ve gotten older, has your relationship with your senses changed? I would be very disappointed if mine were feeling diminished. I make it my mission to constantly smell and taste and be looking for that beauty around me all the time. Montessori felt that your hands were the instrument of your mind. I believe that, and that we need to use our hands in meaningful ways. Shelling fava beans is one of the most meaningful experiences. At first it’s hard. You don’t know how to do it. How do you get into the fava bean? Then you realize that you have to open it from the top. The whole seam of it just pops open — of course it depends on the age of the fava beans. Then you learn how to slide ’em out with one finger, and you get better and better at it. That sense of accomplishment: You have a pile of beans at the end that you did.
Alice Waters and Jeremiah Tower at Chez Panisse in 1975. Sandy Solmon for The New York Times
Hearing you talk about a sense-driven experience like that connects, for me, to the sensuality you wrote about in your memoir, particularly your openness about sexuality. Maybe this is a goofy question, but do you see links between sex and food? Of course I do. I love them both! And I know that gobbling down food and gobbling down sexual experience isn’t gratifying and not what love is about. Sadly, I didn’t learn what love was about from my puritanical parents, which we all had in the ’50s. We got into the extreme of it all in the ’60s — that was gobbling it down. I didn’t know about love till much later in my life. Food and sex and love — it’s something very precious, and it is about intimacy. It’s about respect and friendship. We have to think collaboratively. For example, I never thought of the Edible Schoolyard as teaching about love and friendship, but when boys are really cooking and girls are using those big tools out in the garden and doing that hard work, I see that there’s something important that begins to happen. They become respectful with each other. When I was a teenager, it was: All the girls here and all the boys there. Now I love when I see men pushing strollers, just as I love women who are doing what have traditionally been men’s jobs. I love men who are feminine and women who are masculine; I wish there weren’t that divide. We’d sure get along better. Being able to respect each other in a deep way is how we’re going to be able to empathize.
On the notion of empathy, one of the criticisms that you get is that you’re doctrinaire about right and wrong when it comes to agriculture and food. Anthony Bourdain even compared you to Pol Pot. Do you have empathy for those who don’t share your ideas? Or put another way, do you see room for compromise? I cannot compromise when it comes to wholesomeness. Our health begins in the ground. Period. The health of the soil is the most important thing right now for our health and for climate. I cannot accept any excuses, because I don’t believe they’re true. They’re myths promoted by the fast-food industry: “It’s too expensive to eat organic, regenerative food.” It is not. If you know how to cook and you don’t eat huge amounts of meat and cheese, it is not more expensive. It doesn’t take more time. We can do it. That is what I’m trying to help people understand.
What you said about the belief that it’s more expensive to eat organic food or that it takes more time to prepare makes me think of the line in your new book where you wrote that convenience almost never factors into your decisions. I could imagine someone reading that and thinking, Well, lucky for you. Can you understand where that might come from? Well, fast food has separated work and pleasure. You work in an Amazon factory and then come home, and you have to eat quickly and it’s too much trouble to cook. Just order in. Buy something fast on your way home. All those fast-food pleasures. Box of cookies? Grab it. Work can be hard, but it should never be meaningless. Beauty and meaning are human values, and we have taken these away from the public. They’re being sold the cheapest pot and pan; the thing that you buy and it breaks down and you buy another one. Some people will never understand that I would rather pound my pesto by hand because I’m smelling it — I can’t wait till basil comes. It’s almost coming, and new garlic just arrived! I’m thinking about that pleasure when I make pesto. It takes a little longer, but I don’t want to do it in a blender. I don’t want to hear the noise. If I use a machine, I’m not experiencing making the pesto as I experience it when I make it by hand. We always make everybody make pesto by hand as part of their application at Chez Panisse.
Waters (center) with Chez Panisse employees outside the restaurant in 1982. Susan Wood/Getty Images
What are you looking for in someone who’s going to work at Chez Panisse and succeed? And I mean almost more in terms of personal aesthetics rather than practical skills. The first thing I ask is: Do they cook at home? Where did they get the food? When they grew up, did they eat together with their family? Where are their parents from? Do they speak any other languages? What cookbooks have they read? I’m trying to get at how hard it is going to be to bring them into the Chez world. When somebody’s Italian, it’s pretty easy. I forget how deeply the Italian values have endured through the last 50 years of fast-food indoctrination. It’s probably because of Carlo Petrini. And it’s not just Italians. It’s many, many immigrants who are happy to come to the table, know the protocol of a meal and want to eat in a certain traditional way. It’s so beautiful. It’s Mexicans. It’s Japanese. That attitude is hard to find in Americans, except in the South and in Black and Indigenous populations. In general, it has been taken away.
I’m going to interpret that as you saying WASPs don’t know how to eat. Which is obviously true. [Laughs.] I won’t go that far. But maybe I would! We never got into eating at a table for pleasure. So when fast food came in, they pulled us out by the roots; we didn’t have deep roots. I was lucky because my parents had a victory garden, and they taught me some of those values and about beauty. I long for lilacs in the spring!
Is there anything better about the culture today than there was, say, 60 years ago as far as our relationship with food? I want to say no, because we have lost the idea of the preciousness of food. We think it’s OK to waste. It is unconscionable to waste. Is there something you can think of?
I guess that more people are more open to more kinds of food. Let’s say for the sake of argument that my family’s experience is somewhat representative: My grandparents were immigrants from southern Italy. My nonna had an amazing garden. She grew tomatoes; she had fig and pear trees. She had grapes, radicchio, eggplant, peppers, beans — and she grew them in Canadian weather. She understood in her bones how to grow food. But I will say that her interest in trying any food that she was not already deeply familiar with was nonexistent. And now my parents will gladly eat Thai food, Japanese food, Mexican food. Isn’t that a change for the better? That is a change. But in a way, it’s not the real thing. It’s our fast-food idea of what Mexican food is. Certainly there is a vibrant farm-to-table movement in this country. The farmers’ markets that are dedicated to organic and regenerative are incredibly exciting to see. I have to say, the idea of small restaurants happening like the ones that I went to when I was in France in the ’60s is so appealing. They’re not running a restaurant to make a big pot of money. They do it as a way of life. They’ve taken all these human values — nourishment, community, beauty and diversity — and run with them. And I have great hope for what could happen in cities if farmers’ markets became the place to buy food, so that people didn’t have to go to the outskirts and buy from Costco.
Waters (right), Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, with students during a royal visit to an Edible Schoolyard Project garden in Berkeley, Calif., in 2005. D. Ross Cameron/Associated Press
Are you ever concerned that the prices at Chez Panisse reinforce the idea that organic food is a luxury item? Of course. But we have tried over the years to help people understand that it’s not just about the food. It’s about the pay for the employees. Our bottom pay is $17 an hour. I hope we can raise that to $20. It’s very hard for us to let go of tips, because that’s a huge income that comes into the restaurant, but I would love to eliminate tipping and all that comes with that. But people don’t understand that we’re talking about paying everybody in the restaurant. That means the dishwasher, the person who’s taking away the laundry. Everybody. And to think that food should be cheap? It’s always been precious. People were willing to buy that before the computer. They were willing to buy that before clothes. They thought about it as the top priority. Now we think of it as the least important. So whenever anybody talks about elitism — excuse me, we’re talking about nourishment. We’re talking about pay for employees. We’re talking about climate change.
Let me ask: Is there a food that has been especially comforting during the pandemic? Well, Fanny and I, we’d both be working, and she’d say — at about 3 o’clock in the afternoon — “Is it time yet?” Then we’d toast this delicious loaf of Acme Bread’s. They’re making it with whole grains, and it’s got a great crust on it. It’s a little sour. Fanny immediately goes to the toaster oven, and I go and get the garlic — fresh garlic — and a great bottle of olive oil. We cook that toast till it’s dark and then rub it with garlic and pour some olive oil on it and just eat it there. We also make a big pot of beans — or I should say Fanny would — at the beginning of the week, and we use them all week. It’s red beans, red-and-white — all the colors of beans! Fanny really taught me how to cook them: You put in onion, carrots, celery and bouquet garni. When they’re finished, they are incredible. That’s one of my favorite things to do, make that pot of beans. I’m making one today with chard and kale and whatever greens — if you have salad that’s wilted too much, you can sauté it up with a lot of garlic, put those greens in. Those beans make a great breakfast in a taco. They make a pasta. They are right there when you need them.
I read your daughter’s book, and in there she wrote that when she was a kid, the one nonorganic, mass-produced food that you seemed to be OK with having in the house was cream of wheat. Why? It wasn’t OK necessarily, but, you know, it came from my childhood. I must have had nostalgia. That’s how that might’ve come into my pantry for a moment — it didn’t have a long life there. That wasn’t fair that she said that, exposing me like that. But I love the story about her and the blueberries. She and her friend wanted to have blueberry pancakes, and I said, “It isn’t blueberry time.” Did she tell this in the book? That was a hilarious story. I said: “If you find some that are organic, OK. But they don’t exist.” She goes to the store. She comes back and shows me a package: blueberries with the organic sticker on them. And of course, I looked everywhere in the package and tasted them, and I said, “Whatcha doing?” She couldn’t help but say, “I took the organic sticker from another package.”
But you let her make the pancakes, right? We did. We weren’t going to throw the blueberries out. But her cleverness — she almost got me. There could have been blueberries from South America, but I knew there couldn’t be organic ones. It took me a moment to figure out her trick. [Laughs.] I mean, I know I can sound a little rarefied or elitist or whatever about all of this, but I absolutely believe that this is available to everyone. I could never speak about it if I felt that it wasn’t possible for everyone to experience this kind of beauty.
Waters receiving a National Humanities Medal from President Barack Obama in 2015. Andrew Harnik/Associated Press
What about ideas of beauty relating to food that are different from your own? Maybe this is a cockamamie example, but couldn’t someone say that, from an ecological perspective, meat created in a lab is a beautiful concept? Are you open to that? No. I’m not, because nature is sacred, and authenticity for me connects with beauty. I can’t entertain it if it’s not the real thing. I know there’s something intrinsic in food that’s genuine and ripe, seasonal. There’s something about the flush on the peach — you can sense it.
Last question: You’ve been running Chez Panisse for 50 years. Do you have any hunches about how the restaurant might change when you’re not around anymore? I just trust that they will always carry those values we’ve been discussing. Probably 10 years ago, I might have worried about, Who’s going to choose the main chef? Because I’ve always had that final say. It’s like how I worried for the first 20 years: If any of these cooks leave, I’m going to cry and the restaurant’s going to close. Then I realized it wouldn’t. I know it could be different in the future, but there’s something embedded that is very important to me and the people who work there. That’s it. I just have to trust.
Opening illustration: Source photograph by Ron Adar/Getty Images
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two conversations.I moved to Tulsa, Okla., in the summer of 1984, fresh out of Harvard Law School and eager to settle into a law firm career in a midsize, cosmopolitan city close to my hometown.
Early on, when I began writing a guest editorial column for the local Black newspaper, The Oklahoma Eagle, the editor asked that I write a series about the Greenwood District.
I had grown up in Fort Smith, Ark., about 100 miles southeast of Tulsa, but I’d known nothing of Tulsa’s history — nothing about “Black Wall Street”; nothing about the massacre that was one of the worst incidents of racial domestic terrorism in our country’s history. But I soon learned, and though the story was horrifying, it drew me in.
As time passed, this lawyer by profession became a historian by trade. The newspaper series led me to write other articles and books, to teaching, and to lecturing about the events, which are emblematic of American history of that period — and the widespread historical racial trauma that still bedevils us.
When I think about how we can help people better understand the past, I hark back to the commitment and creativity of the Mayo school’s teachers. Their boldness so many years ago still holds a lesson for me, and anyone who is teaching the truth of our country’s history. Honesty and balance are our allies, as is the ability to give people the benefit of the doubt; to recognize that people do not know what they do not know. We must give people the opportunity to learn and grow, just like those teachers did.
It’s not easy. There will be resistance.
Just weeks ago, Gov. Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma signed House Bill 1775 into law, which bans the state’s schools from teaching about notions of racial superiority and racism, and even about concepts that might engender “discomfort, guilt, anguish.” It’s true that the bill does not prohibit the teaching of “concepts that align with the Oklahoma Academic Standards,” and the Tulsa Race Massacre is included in those standards. But having taught this history to both adults and children for more than two decades, I believe a chilling effect is likely. Some teachers may avoid the subject for fear of running afoul of the law; others may soft-pedal it.
Oklahoma is not alone. This bill is part of a national movement aimed at racial retrenchment, a backlash against the embrace of diversity, equity and inclusion. And this state is not alone, either, in the way this backlash threatens to prevent us from confronting and repairing the sins of the past. Though the Tulsa Race Massacre may be distinguished by its scale, American history between the end of Reconstruction and the victories of the civil rights movement is marked by bouts of mass anti-Black violence.ATLANTA — There was only one time when he seriously thought about quitting. The project, a 10-episode series for Amazon, had just been announced, in the fall of 2016. Within hours of the news — BARRY JENKINS TO ADAPT HOT NOVEL ‘UNDERGROUND RAILROAD’ — the tweets had arrived.
THIS is what he’s doing after “Moonlight”? I HATE slave movies. Do we really need more images of Black people getting brutalized?
Jenkins almost pulled the plug right then. He could have moved onto something else — a rom-com, maybe, or a beloved Disney cartoon — but that didn’t feel right. There was a story he needed to tell. Not about the physical violence of slavery, but something subtler, about the psychic and emotional scourge, and the unfathomable spiritual strength required for any individual — let alone an entire people — to have come out alive.
That kind of story had rarely been done justice in Hollywood. And it was personal for Jenkins, who, with “Moonlight” and his third film, “If Beale Street Could Talk,” had crafted memorable portraits of Black tenderness under threat.But there was a catch: He still had six years left on his contract. In the weeks to come he would embark on the path to becoming a conscientious objector, a status that allows service members to leave the military early because of a change in their beliefs about war.
Some 2.7 million American service members have served in Iraq and Afghanistan since the start of our “forever wars” in 2001. Tens of thousands have gone AWOL. Countless others have finished out their service disenchanted and depressed, or turned to drugs and alcohol to ease re-entry into a society that would rather ignore war’s moral injuries, often losing their benefits in the process. After seeing the horrors of war and the contradictions of American foreign policy up close, many enlisted men and women are compelled to re-examine the ideals that first drew them to military service.
Very few service members, however, take the path that Mr. Rasmussen eventually did.
The military has been reluctant to publish official figures on conscientious objection. The most recent numbers available are from a Government Accountability Office report published in 2007, which found that on average fewer than 100 applicants a year from 2002 to 2006 — roughly half of them were approved. After that, the data is hard to find. The Center on Conscience and War advises only a subset of applicants for conscientious objector status, but as the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq dragged on, the caseload of the center doubled, its executive director, Maria Santelli, told me. She believes the actual number of annual applicants in recent years is closer to 200.
Though the act of conscientious objection arose historically in response to conscription — a mandatory draft — both Mr. Rasmussen’s story, and the vanishing scarcity of conscientious objectors overall today, raise an important question about the notion of our ostensibly all-volunteer military: How many American troops would become conscientious objectors if the process was more transparent, if they were more aware it was actually an option?
Military contracts require 18-year-olds with little knowledge of war to make commitments that sometimes last more than a decade. At the height of the Iraq war, the Pentagon offered signing bonuses as high as $50,000, and enacted a “stop loss” policy to extend service for tens of thousands of troops, prolonging their deployments just as their contracts were set to end.Before the pandemic, he would have said he was a kid who was on track for a scholarship down the road, maybe even at a college like Northwestern, where his father studied briefly before transferring out. When he became obsessed with the musical “Hamilton” in seventh grade, he went ahead and read the Federalist Papers just to see what they had to say. He starred as Macbeth in a production at school and liked it so much that he read other Shakespeare plays for fun. He never wanted to sound conceited, but in the past, he would have said that school came easily. At the same time, he sometimes found all of it overwhelming. As a Black teenager now approaching six feet, he was acutely conscious of how the expectations of his mother — a school administrator with a Ph.D. — ran up against the expectations of the rest of the world. “To keep proving these stereotypes wrong,” he said, “it takes a lot out of me.”
And then last spring, when the school closed its doors, he found himself alone with thoughts that had been waiting, it turned out, for just that kind of opportunity — for vast amounts of time and space. These new thoughts flooded in, leaving little room for concerns about Othello’s motivation or the subjunctive in French. More and more, when he was alone in his room, there was only one voice, and that voice was telling Charles that he was doomed to fail no matter how promising his start, that he would surely follow what he perceived as his father’s downward slide. His destiny was failure.
In the very first days of the school year, Charles’s laptop kept crashing during Zooms, which started to feel like a metaphor for what the whole year would bring: a big mess, a disconnect, a technological headache that he was left on his own to solve. In the weeks that followed, the days loomed empty and long; the more time that voice had, the louder it grew and the harder it was to get out from under it. Because he did all his work in his bedroom, it was easy to go back to sleep after his first class, if he made it to his first class. “Then when I woke up, I could either a) get up and do what I had to do,” he said, trying to capture his typical schedule, “or b) look at the time, be disappointed in myself and go back to bed.” During remote learning, attendance did not factor into a student’s final grade. Charles wasn’t just skipping class, though — he was barely turning in any assignments. And suddenly, there he was, no longer a kid who got A’s but already a kid who had blown it this early in the semester.
The voice in his head exhausted him, so Charles started sleeping more, even during the day. Sometimes the voice scared him. His heart would start pounding, and he would feel overwhelmed with a sense of impending crisis: It was all over, and there was nothing he could do about it. It was too late.
How was E.K. possibly going to get him out of the hole he was in? She had no sense of how vast it already was. Even still, in early October, he decided to linger after class, on Zoom, when she offered to help any students who were falling behind. At a minimum, he could tell his mother that he’d made an effort. He stayed, and so did Sarah, a classmate everyone liked. She did Cheer and he played J.V. football, but they didn’t move in the same circles. She was really smiley — he thought of her as one of those happy-all-the-time people.
When Sarah stayed after class to attend that extra-help session with Ms. E.K. in early October, she was surprised to see that Charles was there too. Charles, she had already gleaned, was smart. He often had an answer for whatever Ms. E.K. asked; in fact, the students had quickly come to rely on him to save them all from the silences that often hung in the air in their online classes. As they talked with each other and Ms. E.K. that day, Charles and Sarah quickly found common ground and diagnosed their shared problems: lack of motivation, loneliness, a feeling of hopelessness. Charles suggested that maybe Sarah needed some help, to which Sarah said: What about you?
During that conversation, Sarah told the first of many lies that she would tell her teachers, her mother and herself over the coming months. OK, she would say, I am ready to turn over a new leaf. Now I’m really going to apply myself. But she still rarely made it to class. If her laptop died in the middle of a Zoom, she decided that was God’s way of telling her she had done enough for the day. About six weeks into school, her mother, her health still shaky, her mind still foggy, looked at an interim academic assessment that landed in her email inbox and said, “What do all these N.H.I.s mean?” Sarah said, “Huh, I don’t know,” as if trying to decode one of the great bureaucratic mysteries of her time, when in fact she knew exactly what they stood for: not handed in. She grew accustomed to emails from teachers piling up. “Just making sure you saw. ... ” “A reminder that your essay. ... ” Everybody wanted something from her. Whoa, whoa, whoa. She was going to get back to them — eventually.Of course, the road to political obsolescence is littered with the bones of political analysts like me who predicted that demographics would be destiny. But Mr. Trump didn’t just devastate the G.O.P.’s fledgling class of up-and-coming talent. He also rattled the already precarious loyalty of young Republican voters; from December 2015 to March 2017, nearly half of Republicans under 30 left the party, according to Pew. Many returned, but by 2017, nearly a quarter of young conservatives had defected.
Millennials and Gen Zers were already skeptical of the G.O.P., but Mr. Trump alienated them even further. His campaign of white grievance held little appeal for the two most racially diverse generations in U.S. history. Youth voter turnout was higher in 2020 than it was in 2016, with 60 percent of young voters picking Joe Biden. His youth vote margin was sufficient to put him over the top in key states like Arizona, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Georgia, according to an analysis by Tufts University, and young voters of color were particularly energized.
Contrary to conventional wisdom that young people are always liberal and older people are always conservative, most voters form their political attitudes when they’re young and tend to stay roughly consistent as they age. And anti-Trumpism may now be one of the most durable political values of Americans under 50. By the end of Mr. Trump’s presidency, after the Jan. 6 insurrection, almost three-quarters of Americans under 50 said they strongly disapproved of him. Even young Republicans were cooling off: According to a new CBS poll, Republicans under 30 were more than twice as likely as those older than 44 to believe that Mr. Biden was the legitimate winner of the 2020 election and roughly twice as likely to believe the party shouldn’t follow Mr. Trump’s lead on race issues.
“Younger conservatives aren’t focused on the election being stolen or the cultural sound bites,” said Benji Backer, the president of the American Conservation Coalition, a conservative climate action group. He told me that Ms. Stefanik had “distanced herself from the youth conservation movement,” after years of being one of the most climate-conscious Republicans in Congress. Now, he said, “peddling misinformation about the election and Jan. 6 has made it harder for young people to look up to her as a future voice in the party.”
The new G.O.P. of 2015 has been replaced by a newer G.O.P.: a cohort of young Republican leaders who seem far more concerned with owning the libs on social media than with proposing conservative solutions to issues that matter to young people.
This cohort includes millennials like Representative Matt Gaetz and Representative Lauren Boebert as well as Representative Madison Cawthorn, a Gen Z-er, all Trump loyalists who voted to overturn the electoral vote result. Mr. Gaetz introduced a bill to terminate the Environmental Protection Agency, Ms. Boebert introduced a bill to designate antifa as a “domestic terrorist organization,” and Mr. Cawthorn has so embraced the Trumpian ethos of rhetoric as leadership that he once said he “built my staff around comms rather than legislation.”
It’s clear that this version of the Republican Party is firmly the party of old people: Mr. Gaetz and Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene kicked off their America First tour with a Trumpian rally at the Villages, Florida’s famous retirement community.WASHINGTON — Vice President Kamala Harris achieved another first for women on Friday when she addressed the graduating class of the United States Naval Academy, becoming the first female commencement speaker in the school’s nearly 175-year history.
The vice president’s speech focused on some of the Biden administration’s most urgent challenges, like the coronavirus pandemic, climate change and a host of increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity threats — occurrences she called “warning shots” that would require a military trained to counter them.
“A gang of hackers can disrupt the fuel supply of a whole seaboard,” Ms. Harris said. “One country’s carbon emissions can threaten the sustainability of the whole earth. This, midshipmen, is the era we are in — and it is unlike any era that came before.”
The vice president’s speech at the Naval Academy, in Annapolis, Md., was her first to focus on the military, and it came as the Biden administration accelerated its withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, well ahead of the Sept. 11 deadline President Biden set in April.WASHINGTON — The Biden administration on Thursday said it planned to revise a Trump-era rule that limited the ability of states and tribes to veto pipelines and other energy projects that could pollute their local waterways.
The Trump administration finalized the rule last June, saying that curbs on state authority were necessary because too many states had been using clean water laws to block pipelines, coal terminals and other fossil-fuel projects from going forward. Since then, 20 states and several tribes have challenged the rule in court, contending that the constraints could hamper their ability to safeguard their rivers and drinking water.
But under the Biden administration, the Environmental Protection Agency is now saying that it will move to bolster state authority. “We have serious water challenges to address as a nation and, as E.P.A. administrator, I will not hesitate to correct decisions that weakened the authority of states and tribes to protect their waters,” Michael S. Regan, who took over as head of the agency in March, said on Thursday.
Oil and gas industry groups, which had praised the earlier Trump-era rule, said they were wary of major changes.And how does a segment of the population that is losing its numerical majority — as the populations of other ethnic and racial groups, particularly Hispanics and Asians, surge — maintain control in a democracy? It abandons the basic tenets of democracy, that’s how. It redefines democracy smaller. It excludes more people from participation while granting more power to others.
Republicans’ blocking the independent commission to look into an insurrection that targeted the Capitol on the day that Congress was set to certify the results of the presidential election is extraordinary in every way.
Republicans refused to defend democracy from a mob that came to upend it.
But it isn’t only Republicans in Congress chipping away at democracy, it’s happening all around the country. The latest raft of voter suppression bills is another example. Republicans don’t want to appeal to the existing and evolving electorate; they want to shave it down to a form more desirable to them.
Perhaps one of the more pernicious features are measures, like those in a Texas bill, that would make it easier for states to overturn results of elections. As The Houston Chronicle put it, not only would the bill change the burden of proof for fraud charges from “clear and convincing evidence” to “preponderance of the evidence,” a related measure would then “allow a judge to overturn an election if the total number of ballots found to be fraudulent exceeds the margin of victory.” The Chronicle continued, “In such cases, a judge could ‘declare the election void without attempting to determine how individual voters voted.’”
On the front end, Republicans are trying to limit the numbers and kinds of people who can vote, and on the back end, they are trying to give themselves the option of voiding those votes.It is not clear whether Mr. Biden and other Democrats in Congress will embrace the push, given that Democratic leaders have been focused on a competing effort to make permanent a temporary expansion of health subsidies under the Affordable Care Act that was included in the stimulus law. That proposal has widespread support, including from hospitals, which want to be paid the higher private insurance rates, and insurers, which want more people buy their products. Any effort to expand Medicare is likely to be met with resistance from those same groups.
But Ms. Jayapal argued that the two health care proposals were compatible. She said that negotiating lower drug prices could generate enough money to pay for the changes to the Affordable Care Act as well. If not, “there are lots of revenue raisers that are possible and necessary,” she said.
The Medicare proposals have proved popular among the so-called frontline Democrats — those who represent conservative-leaning districts — with more than a dozen signed on to the effort, underscoring its cross-party appeal.
After meeting with White House officials on the issue, Mr. Neguse argued that Democrats could go even further and lower the Medicare eligibility age to 55 to cover more than 40 million additional people.
“Many of our nation’s seniors are unable to receive care for their ailments because Medicare benefits are not as a broad as they should be,” he said.
The Democrats say at least 75 percent of Medicare beneficiaries who need a hearing aid do not have one and much of the country has low rates of visiting the dentist or getting eye exams.
Mr. Golden said that when he talked to voters, he repeatedly heard that the change would help residents in his district.Of hip-hop’s current superstar elite, no one has had a path to the top as curious or unexpected as J. Cole. A decade ago, he had his eye on becoming one of rap’s biggest stars in the mold of Jay-Z and Nas. But when he found the path to the top riddled with compromises, he peeled off to follow his own happiness, resulting in some of the most popular and successful music of his career. He just released his sixth album, “The Off-Season,” which debuted at the top of the Billboard album chart, just like the five that preceded it.
And where is Cole now that he’s No. 1? Playing in the Basketball Africa League, for the Rwanda Patriots. Once more, he is following an unconventional muse, choosing a route that prioritizes internal fulfillment over immediate gain and acclaim.
On this week’s Popcast, a conversation about Cole’s music career, from aspirant to confused victor to triumphant cult hero. Plus, an analysis of his basketball sojourn, and the long and curious exchange between hip-hop and basketball — rappers with hoop dreams and players with rap ambitions alike.
Guests:Karen writes: My husband, David, hates Bundt cake. I believe he was scarred by grotesque Bundt-shaped 1970s recipes. But he likes cake. Please order him to try it.
I appreciate David’s phobia, as I just happened to watch the YouTuber B. Dylan Hollis use a Bundt pan to make a 1969 recipe for tuna Jell-O salad. Content warning: traumatically gross. Hollis’s channel is devoted to making all kinds of weird, antique recipes (tomato soup cake, ground pork fruitcake, etc.) and certainly confirms the Bundt pan’s repulsive midcentury intersection with gelatinous “salads.” But the Bundt is just a shape, a vessel that cannot be blamed for its disgusting passengers. If David eats standard cake, I order him to eat one in the delightful Bundt format. In fact, make it Hollis’s re-creation of 1956’s chocolate mayonnaise cake, which actually looks amazing.WASHINGTON — President Biden on Friday unveiled $3.6 trillion in tax increases on wealthy Americans and big corporations to pay for his plans to combat climate change, reduce income inequality and significantly expand the nation’s social safety net.
For the wealthiest taxpayers, the proposals would mean higher taxes on their income, the sale of their investments and the transfer of their assets when they die. Starting at the end of 2021, the top individual income tax rate would rise to 39.6 percent from 37 percent, reversing the Trump administration’s tax cuts for the highest income taxpayers. The new rate would apply to income over $509,300 for married couples filing jointly and $452,700 unmarried individuals.
Taxes on capital gains — the proceeds of selling an asset like a stock or a boat — for people earning more than $1 million would be taxed as ordinary income, effectively increasing the rate wealthy individuals pay on that money to 39.6 percent from 20 percent.
Because capital gains income would also still be subject to a 3.8 percent surtax that helps fund the Affordable Care Act, the conservative Tax Foundation estimated that high-earning taxpayers in some states could face tax rates on their capital gains that are above 50 percent, the highest such tax burden in a century.Photo illustration by Bráulio Amado Talk Ancient Rome Will Never Get Old. Take It From Mary Beard.
Is America akin to Rome in decline? Was Trump like Caligula? What can the Antonine plague tell us about our response to Covid? These are questions that have been asked of late, but they’re only recent iterations of a longstanding impulse: When a seeming paradigm shift occurs, contemporary commentators will look to ancient Rome for parallels, lessons, warnings. But what do we truly hope to reveal with these comparisons to Rome? And what do those hopes say about us? Mary Beard has spent a lifetime examining such questions. The success with which the Cambridge classics professor, best-selling author, television documentary series host and feisty Twitter star has done so has elevated her to something akin to icon status — though, like the subjects she studies, that status is not free of complications, which she welcomes. “If I’ve got a function in life other than being a bloody dinosaur,” says Beard, who is 66, “then the job is to say things are complicated. They’re always complicated.”
Obviously we can refer back to ancient Rome and say we took positive influence from their ideas about, for example, law and government. These days, though, it seems that pundits are mostly inclined to look to Rome for cautionary tales. But have we ever really looked back and said, Boy, the Ancient Romans screwed that up, so let’s do things differently? The comparisons can just feel like a highfalutin parlor game. I’ll tell you where you see it: military campaigns. The aggressive or do-gooding West has a disastrous campaign in the Middle East and then people start to say, Ooh, Romans always had trouble there. It looks frightfully learned, and as if it’s rooting your distaste for that kind of military escapade in the terms of real history when, in fact, it’s using history to justify what you think anyway. But no, you don’t sit down and say, “Hmm, the ancient Roman Empire: These are people who were pro-migration. So I’m a bit worried about my strongly nationalist tendencies, because I’ve looked at Rome and they seemed to do rather well by taking a very different approach.” What the Romans are teaching is always at that meta level of what it might be like to take a view different from your own. But, “I’ve suddenly realized,” said somebody in the 1830s, “if the ancient Greeks finally got around to giving the vote to all adult males, why can’t we?” That never happened.
So why this almost instinctual urge to continue looking for parallels? You know, when people used to call me about Trump because they wanted to know which Roman emperor you’d compare him to, I always thought, This is damn stupid. The comparison wasn’t doing anybody any harm, but I would either give a little lesson about why this was not a sensible way forward or I would try to find a Roman emperor that I thought they wouldn’t have heard of. I usually picked on Elagabalus, who makes Nero look like a pussycat. So as long as it’s a parlor game, it’s harmless. Maybe you then say, So why bother? What is important for me about ancient Rome is two things. One is it provides a safe space for us to discuss issues about communal living, politics, exploitation, in which we’re not invested. We can talk about Nero putting the Christians to death brutally in a way that doesn’t impinge on modern Christians — it’s so far in the past. We can think about enslavement and empire because Rome, in a way, doesn’t matter at all. It’s a very long time ago; no one’s going to get hurt by them. We’re in charge of ancient Rome now. Second, Rome helps us stand outside ourselves. For me, Rome was a brutal and exploitative empire. But the idea of looking at a big, nasty imperial community who saw their origin in migration, in asylum, and that always traded on the incorporation of the foreign — it takes us out of some of our assumptions.
Mary Beard at 18 during a break at an archaeological excavation. Diana Bonakis Webster
But on the idea of ancient Rome being a safe space, isn’t it a point of contention in contemporary classical scholarship that classics are inextricably intertwined with white supremacy? There is absolutely no doubt that ancient Rome in particular but also bits of ancient Greece have been used to validate fascism, dictatorship, white supremacy. There were things that were whited over: ancient slavery was talked about as if it was some kind of version of 19th-century domestic service. People have always been extremely good at not seeing what they didn’t want to see in the ancient world or using the ancient world to validate appalling stuff. That said, there has been a tendency to overestimate the “toxic” history of subjects, because academic subjects do not exist outside the culture in which they’re studied. So of course classics have a toxic history. Nuclear physics has a toxic history. Anthropology has a toxic history. It’s extremely important to look at it and face up to it, but classics wasn’t responsible for fascism. We use these things and these traditions, and we’ve used them for bad and good.
But I guess the question is whether you think academia’s increasing awareness of and sensitivity to new perspectives on white supremacy — or even identity politics more broadly — requires a commensurate reorientation of how classics are taught? I don’t know how much weight you’re putting on commensurate.
Neither do I. [Laughs.] Well, to take a very tame example, when I was a student we barely did the history of women in the ancient world, never mind gender, gender identity, trans politics. That changed with second-wave feminism. It seems to me utterly obvious that you engage with and change the nature of what you teach as politics changes. It’s perhaps more contentious to see exactly how you approach that in relation to a more popular understanding of classics. Because there is a danger that if people get a glimpse of some of the battles in the modern academy and some of the loudest claims about the toxic history of classics, the subject loses support. Every academic subject, in order to survive, relies on people thinking it’s worth supporting. One thing that I’ve tried to do in my teleprograms is to say, Look, the subject is interesting and one of the reasons that we are still studying it is because it has been implicated in the history of the West, and some of that history you’ve got to look in the eye — and it’s not always nice.
You mentioned how second-wave feminism incurred new perspectives on the classics. Are there contemporary aspects of feminist thinking that you’ve since had to incorporate into your understanding of classics? I’m not sure I’d call it feminist, but: issues of gender. I was educationally brought up to see ancient Greece but also ancient Rome as a strongly binary-gendered culture that incorporated all kinds of homoeroticism — which is what Oscar Wilde and company picked up on. I was taught that there’s a fixed binary divide. Various bits of L.G.B.T.Q. theorizing made us keep our eyes open for ways in which that’s not true entirely. As one example, there’s a famous statue, and it comes in various versions, of a life-size marble Hermaphroditus lying down, and the figure has a penis and breasts. When I was a student, we were taught either that it was a very clever representation of a particularly odd Greek myth or an elegant Greco-Roman joke. There were times when I taught that. I wouldn’t today. And while you cannot take debates about gender fluidity, trans politics or whatever and just impose them on the ancient world, I’ve come to see that some Romans were fervently debating these things. That Hermaphroditus statue that I was taught was a joke is much more likely now to be seen in terms of a Roman debate about gender and sexual identity.
Beard at Newnham College in Cambridge, England, in 2000. Brian Harris/Alamy
Speaking of which, a few weeks ago there was this kerfuffle on Twitter when people got mad at you for following TERFs, and your response was basically to say that you follow people not necessarily because you agree with their views but to understand what they think, which didn’t seem to satisfy anyone. What did that experience show you about social media? I see, in a way that I hadn’t before, that Twitter operates with very different microcommunities within it. Mostly those microcommunities jostle along quite happily with each other, but sometimes they come into conflict. I went on to Twitter 10 years ago because I did journalism with The Times Literary Supplement and was told to have a Twitter account. You’d tweet an article so people would click on it. You followed people that might be saying interesting things even if you disagreed with them. Or perhaps you’d follow people because you were going to disagree with them and that was a way in which you’d get information. That’s one version of Twitter, which quite a lot of people of my generation hold. It’s a version which is based in a degree of privilege. But it’s now clear to me that there are other people within Twitter who are using it as a support group. They block people they don’t want to hear, and they’ve created a micro-community within the platform. That’s a perfectly legitimate thing to do. But in my version of Twitter, if you spot somebody saying, “She follows some TERFs,” you think, Why are you trying to police whom I follow? So what you’ve brought up is a case in which two versions of Twitter came head to head, and they’re incompatible. I sort of knew that before, but now I’m able to describe it more clearly.
In this instance were your critics right in making the assumption that your following certain people on Twitter was evidence of ideological sympathy? I see the logic, but I don’t agree with it. You want to know what people you don’t agree with are saying, and you also want to know what people you don’t respect are saying. You don’t get a sense of where the argument lies by not looking or not interacting. I’m very pleased to think that there are people with whom I agree on some issues and not others. I don’t want a world in which we all agree. I want a world in which people feel that they have the standing and confidence to feel that they can disagree. I’m interested in why people think as they do. Whatever side of whatever political divide you are, you can’t just lock the other side up and put gags around their mouths — there’s too many of them! But what would it be for me to show them why I think as I do? That’s where history comes in. Look at people in the British 19th century crossing boundaries that we think are absolutely unacceptable: Who backed eugenics? Who opposed the rights of women to any voice in the public sphere? Who opposed the Factory Act? Some of those guys, in other aspects of their life, were doing things that we think of as part of the foundation of modern Britain. So we have to say, What would it be like to be a liberal-reforming late-Victorian male who fundamentally opposed giving women the vote? It could be that they’re all bastards. I just don’t think that’s true. I think they’re wrong. That’s different.
Does all the time you’ve spent in trying to understand historical peoples’ mind-sets give you any insight into how we might end up being understood? That, you see, is the $64,000 question. One of the things that history is good for is puncturing our sanctimonious self-satisfaction about our own moral rectitude. In all sorts of ways, we are better than the people who came before us, but one thing that I ask my undergraduates to do is to fast-forward 200 years: What do you think people will be writing essays about us on? What will they find deplorable or puzzling? And once they start to think about it, they get many answers: How can you possibly treat the old in that way? We have dumping grounds for the elderly. History is about learning to put yourself in proportion to a rather longer time span.
Beard in 2018 at a premiere event for her BBC documentary series ‘‘Civilizations.’’ Pete Dadds/BBC
My understanding is that the cutting-edge research now on ancient Rome — and I don’t mean this glibly — is on things like the kind of fish scales found in the latrines at Pompeii. That’s a question we’d like to answer, but it’s not going to change our fundamental thinking. So are there still big questions remaining for you about Rome? The book that I’ve just finished is about modern images of Roman emperors from the Renaissance to now. I think that provides an example of new questions about classics. I was curious about the lineups of the 12 Caesars on museum shelves. I’d walk past those and wouldn’t give them another look. I’m a bloody classicist, and I thought, Oh, god, another lineup of the 12 Caesars. I don’t quite know how I came to work on it, but as soon as you look at how these lineups of boring old busts were put together — they knew these guys were foul. They weren’t sitting there saying, We can all model ourselves on the Caesars. They knew that they were nasty, and they still had them there. Why do you have statues of people you hate? We’ve always thought that, Oh, gosh, we’ve just opened our eyes to this; we know that Domitian was nasty. But our predecessors knew perfectly well, too! I’m probably not the first person to have asked the question, but I’m the first person to have asked the question recently very publicly, which is: What are these statues doing? What is our investment in a lineup of monsters? How does it relate to our anxieties about statues of people involved in the slave trade? What do we think statues are for, and can the ancient world help us think afresh about this? It isn’t novel in the sense that counting the fish scales in a Pompeiian lavatory has a certain novelty about it. But it’s new for me.
Without spoiling your book, can you share some possible answers to those questions? I think these statues are warnings against self-satisfaction. I look at these statues of people I very much dislike, and I think, first of all, You’re wrong and I’m right. You might be up on that [expletive] pedestal, but you’re wrong. Then I think, But you’re a warning to me. One day I’ll be wrong. It engenders a little bit of humility. What is amazing about this whole debate is that statues are always being changed around. X is being taken down and we’re bringing someone else because we think they’re nicer. Even in great ceremonial places like Trafalgar Square, apart from Nelson, hardly any of them were ever intended to be there. They’re all temp residents. Statues are works in progress.
I don’t know if this is novel to you, but in the last few years there has been a real resurgence of popular interest in Stoic philosophy — why’d you just roll your eyes? All to the good when people are interested in the ancient world, but this is one of the more mystifying bits of interest: clichéd self-help from a philosophy that, if you looked at it really hard, was nasty, fatalistic, bordering on fascist.
But what’s your hunch about why people are being drawn to Stoicism? What comes out in Marcus Aurelius particularly is rather clichéd thoughts: Never take a major decision when your mind is troubled. We can all agree with clichés like that. And they come with the rubber stamp of great antiquity because they were written by an emperor — an emperor who was about as brutal in massacring the enemy as Julius Caesar. But we tend to forget that side of him because he’s a bearded “philosopher.” It’s not very salutary to look at your Amazon ratings, but I always feel terribly pleased — though it doesn’t happen often — when I’m higher up than Marcus Aurelius.
Opening illustration: Source photograph by Geraint Lewis/Writer Pictures, via Associated Press
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two conversations.So, Amazon now owns 50 percent of 007.
With the acquisition of MGM and its movie catalog, the online retail giant bought into the James Bond franchise. When I heard this news, a chill went through me. Having worked as a writer on “Skyfall” and “Spectre,” I know that Bond isn’t just another franchise, not a Marvel or a DC; it is a family business that has been carefully nurtured and shepherded through the changing times by the Broccoli/Wilson family. Work sessions on “Skyfall” and “Spectre” were like hearty discussions around the dinner table, with Barbara Broccoli and her half brother Michael Wilson letting all the unruly children talk. Every crazy aunt or eccentric uncle was given a voice. We discussed and debated and came to a resolution, as families must, with no outside voices in the room. When you work on Bond movies, you’re not just an employee. You’re part of that family.
The reason we’re still watching Bond movies after more than 50 years is that the family has done an extraordinary job of protecting the character through the thickets of moviemaking and changing public tastes. Corporate partners come and go, but James Bond endures. He endures precisely because he is being protected by people who love him.
The current deal with Amazon gives Barbara Broccoli and Michael Wilson, who own 50 percent of the Bond empire, ironclad assurances of continued artistic control. But will this always be the case? What happens if a bruising corporation like Amazon begins to demand a voice in the process? What happens to the comradeship and quality control if there’s an Amazonian overlord with analytics parsing every decision? What happens when a focus group reports they don’t like Bond drinking martinis? Or killing quite so many people? And that English accent’s a bit alienating, so could we have more Americans in the story for marketability?
If you think I’m exaggerating, consider some internal polling data that decreed that the movie adaptation of “Sweeney Todd” — for which I wrote the screenplay — would be much more popular without all those annoying songs.My rice cooker was cheaply made and cheaply bought, a squat device of rounded plastic and metal. I chose mine from the selection at H Mart because it had only two settings — cook and warm — and pastel flowers stamped across its curve. I found this flourish charming: My rice cooker tries. I try, too, because cooking is not one of my strengths. I’ve always approached it as a means to an end (dinner), which, because I am lacking in culinary skills, is only the means to another end (caloric intake).
One of the few meals I can make with confidence is congee, a kind of porridge commonly eaten as a breakfast food in many Asian countries. Congee is made of just rice and water and by itself is formidably bland. Bowls can act like sinkholes of flavor into which sauces and seasonings are absorbed and vanish. I have a childhood memory of myself, age 8, using up half a bottle of soy sauce to flavor a stubborn congee; I woke up the next morning, throat throbbing from the sodium. I now top my congee with side dishes. More traditional eaters usually reach for pickled vegetables and preserved eggs. My accessories are less orthodox, because I often buy them pre-prepared: I like kimchi, puffed tofu sopped in sesame oil and salty dashes of dried anchovies.
I spent my childhood in Hong Kong with my mother, while my father lived in China for the majority of his life and the entirety of mine. In both places, congee was ubiquitous but unremarkable, the kind of meal served as a stopgap against hunger. Because I have no memories of craving congee, I was surprised by the budding enjoyment I felt once I started making it. It is an easy, economical dish, but there’s also an alchemical thrill to the process. You combine two basic components and come back to some strange new matter: a substance with the unsettling feel of cud. I like this slight tinge of grossness, when a mouth must suddenly feel instead of just taste. There is comfort in each spoonful. Food for toddlers, food for baby birds.
I love the disgusting synonyms this kind of meal evokes — slop, gruel, goop — and their ogreish consonants. At its least flavorful, a pot of congee can recall the mysteries of cafeteria food or a mediocre buffet with those metal ladles you gingerly reach for. It is caldron food, in which finesse is sacrificed for the collective satiation of the maximum number of appetites. Now that the pandemic has changed the way we look at communal eating, making it impossible to share food without thinking of bacterial exchange or contagion, I feel nostalgic for this mushiness. Even when I make it solo, stirring my open rice cooker in my cramped kitchen, congee reminds me of what it was like to once eat freely, carelessly, with strangers.“Let the money give you peace of mind,” says Brenita Burns, 38, who was one of 110 low-income Black mothers in Jackson, Miss., who received $1,000 a month last year as part of a guaranteed-income project called Magnolia Mother’s Trust. When Burns was accepted into the program, she hoped to put some of the money toward paying off her $20,000 in student loans. But by the time her first check arrived in March 2020, the country was shutting down. The first things she bought were groceries and a laptop for her 10-year-old son.
“You can do whatever you want with it,” Burns says. It’s your money, and research has shown people tend to know their own needs best. Some of the women used their cash to hire tutors for children who were struggling with virtual learning; others paid down high-interest loans. Burns’s money meant she could care for her ill mother and be home to help her son do schoolwork online. It allowed her to buy things she wanted for herself and her son. “It felt good just to be able to go into a store with him and say, ‘What do you want?’” Burns says.
If you’re on public benefits, know that guaranteed-income money will most likely mean you’ll get less assistance. Burns had to forego over $200 a month in food stamps, and her federally subsidized rent went up. Still, on balance she netted more than she lost. Most of the now dozens of guaranteed-income pilot programs in the country have a set duration. “Enjoy it,” Burns says, “but be mindful that it will end.” If you need public assistance once your program is over, it will very likely take time to be reinstated. Try to save enough to at least cover that delay. Burns got her last check in February and is still waiting to get back on the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
Burns never told her friends or her neighbors about her guaranteed income. “Don’t talk about it,” she says. It didn’t feel fair to mention the free money when everyone wasn’t eligible to apply. A year of the most basic economic security gave Burns time to think about how she wants to be in the world. She started writing children’s books and wants to get a master’s degree so she can be a guidance counselor. In the end, she didn’t save much, but in a year when so many around her were drowning in debt and disease, the money helped Burns keep her family fed, housed and safe. “I was able to stay above water,” she says.The measure also became weighed down by parochial projects inserted in a bid to win broader support, including a new round of funding for NASA with terms that are likely to benefit Jeff Bezos’s space venture, a prohibition on the sale of shark fins and a mandate for labeling the country of origin for king crab. At about 11 p.m. on Wednesday night, with almost no debate, the Senate added a section that would double the budget of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, a Pentagon research agency.
Hours before the legislation was slated to pass, senators were still drafting major components, such as a major trade measure that would reauthorize a lapsed provision that allows for the temporary suspension of tariffs on specific products imported into the United States. It would also direct the United States trade representative to negotiate agreements on forced labor and critical minerals.
Mr. Young, who at a recent hearing made no secret of his disappointment with some of the changes to the measure, said in an interview on Thursday that the legislation still amounted to a “significant increase in funding that we will see for applied research.”
“We will be able to serve as a force multiplier in our efforts to counter China’s malign influence and activities,” he said.
Still, the legislation was buffeted by partisan squabbling at the last minute after Republicans, fearful that they would not have another opportunity to pass China-related bills and miffed by what they characterized as an overly speedy drafting process, demanded that Democrats incorporate more of their proposals.
In a closed-door luncheon on Wednesday, Republicans tried to persuade their colleagues to delay passage of the bill. Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana argued that the process should be slowed and took a jab at Mr. Schumer: The majority leader was moving so swiftly it was as if he was “running around like a 5-year-old in a Batman costume on Halloween,” Mr. Kennedy said, according to two people familiar with his remarks.
Democrats had allowed votes on more than a dozen Republican amendments, but the threat of a filibuster to block the legislation resulted in a last-ditch round of haggling behind closed doors, as leaders stretched out a 15-minute procedural vote by four hours.To assess the efficacy of aducanumab, two large studies of the drug versus placebo were performed. The trials were stopped in March 2019 because the drug didn’t appear to be effective. But analysis of additional data showed that in the first, there was a small slowing of decline in a group of patients receiving a high dose of the treatment. Another group received a low dose of the antibody and continued to decline at a rate that was not statistically different from that in patients receiving a placebo. In the second study, patients receiving aducanumab, whether at a high or low dose, declined at the same rate as patients on placebo.
While there is precedent for the F.D.A. approving a treatment based on substantial evidence generated from a single trial, the limited evidence provided by the first of the two large aducanumab trials, the outright failure of the second and many other inconsistencies hardly meet this threshold. An F.D.A. advisory committee, on which one of us served, agreed and expressed with near unanimity serious concerns with the evidence to date.
Despite this, Biogen has done everything it can in news releases and investor reports, and at scientific conference presentations, to explain away the uncomfortable and disappointing fact that this product has not been proved to work.
Biogen says that the results from the failed trial would have been positive had investigators followed the patients longer and that analysis of a subset of patients with longer exposure to the high dose in the second trial supports the positive findings of the first trial.
But this post hoc justification simply cannot replace additional, well-designed, blinded, placebo-controlled randomized trials.
Given our lack of effective treatments, some may argue that aducanumab is better than nothing. We strongly disagree. In the aducanumab trials, three out of 10 patients exposed to a high dose had brain swelling as a complication, and although this was usually asymptomatic, in some patients it led to confusion, disorientation and falls. The swelling was detected with the use of rigorous safety screening, including routine M.R.I. scans. Such regular screening is unlikely to occur outside of the clinical trials, and because similar symptoms can be seen in progressive Alzheimer’s, distinguishing these adverse effects from disease progression would be especially difficult.
Approval of aducanumab will also, inevitably, slow progress in finding a new drug that is clearly safe and effective. A lot of continuing and forthcoming drug trials require regular infusions of the drugs being tested and safety M.R.I. scans. Conducting these trials will be more challenging in a setting where many patients are already on monthly infusions of an F.D.A.-approved drug that frequently causes brain swelling. Some patients and caregivers may be reluctant to enroll in a study if they are taking a newly approved drug they presume works. Others, while taking aducanumab, might be ineligible for new trials, since it would be hard to know whether adverse effects such as confusion or brain swelling were from aducanumab or any new investigational drug.
As millions of Americans know all too well, there is an urgent need to identify new treatments for Alzheimer’s. But there is no fundamental conflict between that challenge and maintaining the standards that have earned the F.D.A. the respect of regulatory agencies around the world. Our patients and their families deserve nothing less, and approving aducanumab without persuasive evidence that it actually works will only slow the discovery of what we need most — treatments that we can be confident actually work.
Dr. Michael Greicius is a professor of neurology at Stanford, where he directs the Stanford Center for Memory Disorders. He is also a co-founder of SBGneuro, a company that analyzes M.R.I. data in clinical trials. Dr. G. Caleb Alexander is an internist and professor of epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. He served on an F.D.A. advisory committee evaluating aducanumab.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.I didn’t learn about them before because racism isolates us, disempowers us and erases our history. One solution is to find others and discover strength in our stories and our numbers. In high school, my Asian friends and I jokingly called ourselves “the Asian invasion” because that was all the language we had. In college, I joined the Asian American Political Alliance. There I learned that the term “Asian American” was invented in California by Yuji Ichioka and Emma Gee when they formed the group in 1968.
“Asian American” was a creation — and those who say that there are no “Asians” in Asia are right. But neither is there an “Orient” or “Orientals” — those fantastic figments of the Western imagination, as Edward Said argued. Against this racist and sexist fiction of the Oriental, we built the anti-racist, anti-sexist fiction of the Asian American. We willed ourselves into being, but as with every other act of American self-conjuring, we became marked by a contradiction between American aspiration and American reality.
On the one hand, Asian Americans have long insisted that we are patriotic and productive Americans. This self-defense often leans on the model minority myth and the idea that Asian Americans have succeeded in fields such as medicine and technology because we immigrated with educational credentials and we raise our children to work hard. But Asian Americans are also haunting reminders of wars that killed millions of people and generated many refugees. And Asian Americans have come to satisfy the American need for cheap, exploitable labor — from working on railroads to giving pedicures. We were and are perceived to be competitors in a capitalist economy fractured by divisions of race, gender and class and the ever-widening gap of inequality that affects all Americans.
These roles that we play, and the contradictions they represent, aren’t going anywhere. As long as the United States remains committed to aggressive capitalism domestically and aggressive militarism internationally, Asians and Asian Americans will continue to be scapegoats who embody threat and aspiration, an inhuman “yellow peril” and a superhuman model minority.
No claim to American belonging will end the vulnerability of Asian Americans to racism and cyclical convulsions of violence. And what does it even mean to claim belonging in the United States? If we belong to this country, then this country belongs to us, every part of it, including its systemic anti-Black racism and its colonization of Indigenous peoples and land. Like wave after wave of newcomers to this country before, Asian immigrants and refugees learned that absorbing and repeating anti-Black racism helps in the assimilation process. And like the European settlers, Asian immigrants and refugees aspire to the American dream, whose narrative of self-reliance, success and property accumulation is built on the theft of land from Indigenous peoples.Then Covid-19 arrived, and he no longer could attend support meetings and no longer had to take urine tests — “no support and no accountability,” as his mother put it. Dell received some wrenching personal news and coped by shooting heroin. He overdosed, and the hospital barely brought him back to life.
Dell returned to drugs, and his baby soon had to get medical treatment for somehow ingesting meth when his parents were high. In quick succession, Dell lost his job, lost the baby to foster care, lost his apartment and gave up his other son to be raised by others.
A good man who loved his children and had been doing so well had seen his life collapse and was now living in his car with his new wife. His baby is now being put up for adoption.
“Life is bleak and I did it to myself,” he texted me recently. “Living in a 1996 Honda Civic and not seeing my kids because I don’t have a roof is the worst.” He asked me to help by investing in a scheme he had devised to house people in shipping containers.
“If you would go out on a limb for us,” he said, “it might just save our lives.”
I was heartsick, but Dell’s mother, who herself has been drug-free for six years, begged me not to give him money or anything that he could sell; she fears that the proceeds would go to drugs that would kill him. The best hope to save his life, she said wretchedly, is for him to be arrested and go through detox.
“I’ve never seen him this bad,” his mother told me.
*
This column may seem like a depressing read, but the truth is that while people relapse into addiction, they also, miraculously, pull themselves out — with help.
Years ago in Nashville I met Shelia Simpkins, who was trafficked into prostitution at the age of 6. She spent many years enslaved by violent pimps, struggling with addiction and repeatedly getting arrested but finally left with the help of a program called Thistle Farms. She earned a B.A. and helped countless other women start over.State legislatures have introduced more than 500 restrictions on abortion over the past four months, a huge increase from previous years. The Supreme Court plans to take up a case that could weaken or even overturn the constitutional right to abortion enshrined nearly a half-century ago in Roe v. Wade.
And as reproductive rights advocates sound alarms about what they see as an existential threat to abortion rights, many worry that the leader they helped elect is not meeting the moment.
Despite the urgency felt by much of his party, President Biden has said little about abortion publicly while in office. In fact, he hasn’t said the word itself — an avoidance so noticeable that one advocacy group has created a website tracking his reluctance, DidBidenSayAbortionYet.org.
Many activists fear that Mr. Biden’s personal discomfort with the issue is keeping him from leading the Democratic Party into a more offensive position on abortion rights, both through more aggressive policymaking and leveraging the agenda-setting power of the presidency.WASHINGTON — President Biden will propose a $6 trillion budget on Friday that would take the United States to its highest sustained levels of federal spending since World War II as he looks to fund a sweeping economic agenda that includes large new investments in education, transportation and fighting climate change.
Documents obtained by The New York Times show that the budget request, the first of Mr. Biden’s presidency, calls for total spending to rise to $8.2 trillion by 2031, with deficits running above $1.3 trillion throughout the next decade. The growth is driven by Mr. Biden’s two-part agenda to upgrade the nation’s infrastructure and substantially expand the social safety net, contained in his American Jobs Plan and American Families Plan, along with other planned increases in discretionary spending.
The proposal for the 2022 fiscal year and ensuing decade shows the sweep of Mr. Biden’s ambitions to wield government power to help more Americans attain the comforts of a middle-class life and to lift U.S. industry to better compete globally.
The levels of taxation and spending in Mr. Biden’s plans would expand the federal fiscal footprint to levels rarely seen in the postwar era to fund investments that his administration says are crucial to keeping America competitive. That includes money for roads, water pipes, broadband internet, electric vehicle charging stations and advanced manufacturing research. But it also envisions funding for affordable child care, universal prekindergarten and a national paid leave program — initiatives that Republicans have balked at bankrolling. Military spending would also grow, though it would decline as a share of the economy.LONDON — In November 1922, the BBC sent out its first radio broadcast. Back then, the public broadcaster provided one hour of content a day, but in the century since, BBC Radio has grown to become a sprawling network of stations known for providing quality programming. The BBC’s radio output can be heard across the world, and in Britain it has a tight grip over the audio industry.
Now a group of small podcast companies, using an influx of cash and inspired by the medium’s success in the United States, are trying to prove they can produce content without the public broadcaster’s backing.
The BBC has stifled the British audio industry, said Renay Richardson, who founded the podcast company Broccoli Productions in 2018. Richardson is pushing back against what some see as the strengths of the BBC: its size, the large number of producers it has trained and its commissioning budget, which has helped shape the British podcast industry. But Richardson said the broadcaster, which has historically courted an older, white audience, had restricted the industry from becoming more diverse.
“When I created Broccoli, I didn’t know where the money was coming from, but my main goal was not to be dependent on the BBC because every other company is,” she said in a video interview.I received word my parishioner was dead on May 2. Another member of our church who used to speak with him weekly became concerned when he didn’t make his regular call. Since the pandemic’s start, he’d always tried to be the first in line at the phone, for fear of using the receiver after someone who was infected. A few days later, a hospital near Fishkill called her to report his death. She became emotional recently as we talked about the state’s handling of his case. “Life had no meaning for them,” she said of the prison officials.
No one outside the prison even knew he was sick.
I lived under the shadow of my parishioner’s death for almost a year, returning often to the sense of powerlessness he felt in trying to protect his own life. Eventually, I decided to look into the state’s Covid-19 prison response. What I’ve learned confirms the outrage and condemnation of watchdog groups, including the failing grade for Covid-19 response given to New York by the Prison Policy Initiative last June.
In the spring of 2020, when my parishioner died and while New York was reporting thousands of new cases daily statewide, it was already apparent that the state was unprepared to respond to the unfolding crisis in its prisons. In March that year, Gov. Andrew Cuomo proudly announced the state’s own line of hand sanitizer, “made conveniently by the State of New York.” He failed to explain that the sanitizer was bottled in a state correctional facility by incarcerated people — at the same time that Covid-19 infections were skyrocketing in those places. The state didn’t actually mandate the availability of sanitizer in correctional facilities until the end of the month.
The close quarters of Fishkill’s congregate setting were a tinderbox for largely unmasked residents without adequate access to testing, but it wasn’t until mid-May — a week after my parishioner died — that the state reported it had completed distributing masks in its facilities. Advocacy groups say there wasn’t consistent access to masks even after that: Laurie Dick, who runs the grass-roots advocacy group Beacon Prison Action, told me that during a demonstration outside the prison around Thanksgiving, people inside opened windows and yelled that they needed masks. “I couldn’t believe that in November still they were struggling with masks,” she said.
After all this, the state largely withheld the single most important measure to save lives: the vaccine. The Health Department’s “phase one” vaccine eligibility list included residents of all state-run congregate living settings — except prisons. In March, Judge Alison Tuitt of the State Supreme Court in the Bronx ordered New York to offer vaccines to all incarcerated people, adding that their exclusion from access was “unfair and unjust.”
Who can we hold accountable for this failure to adequately protect New York State’s incarcerated people? I reached out to the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision (DOCCS), which operates New York’s prisons, to ask who was in charge of the state’s Covid-19 prison policy. It provided me with extensive information, including this written statement: “From the onset of the Covid-19 health crisis, NYS DOCCS has worked around-the-clock with the governor’s office and multiple state agencies to ensure the protection of both the incarcerated population and our staff.” It is true that after the first peak of infections, DOCCS carried out Covid-19 mitigation measures, including the early release of almost 4,000 incarcerated people.
But the language of this statement is unclear about who ultimately calls the shots — DOCCS or Governor Cuomo. “If we don’t know who’s making the decisions, we don’t know who to engage,” said Stefen Short, a supervising lawyer at the Legal Aid Society’s Prisoners’ Rights Project, which helped litigate the vaccine case against the state.Financially, the Murdochs’ formula has produced results: After a rare loss to archrivals CNN and MSNBC in January, Fox News’s ratings strength has recovered; the channel is again the Nielsen leader in cable news. In May, Fox News is on track to more than double CNN’s prime-time viewership.
Its new opinion shows at 7 and 11 — with segments that lament “cancel culture” and attack Mr. Biden — are attracting bigger audiences than the newscasts they replaced. And the niche right-wing network Newsmax has failed to sustain its postelection audience gains.
Partisanship plays well on cable news, an insight not lost on programmers at other networks who are chasing fatigued viewers. Liberal-leaning MSNBC has expanded the show hosted by the anti-Trump commentator Nicolle Wallace; it also replaced the moderate Chris Matthews at 7 p.m. with the partisan commentator Joy Reid. Last week, CNN dropped one of its chief conservative commentators, Rick Santorum, after he was criticized for remarks about Native Americans.
“Conservatives have a long-held suspicion of the mainstream media being in the tank for Democrats and for the left,” said Ryan Williams, a Republican strategist and longtime aide to Mitt Romney who has occasionally appeared on the network as a guest. “Fox News for many years was viewed as the only outlet that wasn’t shilling for the other side. Liberals may doubt the power of Fox News, but it still draws a considerable audience for a reason.”
Fox News says its news coverage remains robust. And in some ways, the Murdochs are making a rational business decision by following the conservatives who have made up the heart of the Fox News audience; recent surveys show that more than three-quarters of Republicans want Mr. Trump to run in 2024.
But under Roger Ailes, the network’s founder, who shaped its look and feel, Fox News elevated liberal foils like Alan Colmes, a Democrat who shared equal billing in prime time with Mr. Hannity until the end of 2008, and moderates like Mr. Williams.
Image Roger Ailes, the founder of Fox News, wanted some unpredictability among commentators. Credit... Andrew Toth/FilmMagic
“Roger’s view was you had to have some unpredictability and you had to challenge the audience; you couldn’t just be reading Republican talking points every night,” said Susan R. Estrich, a Democratic lawyer and former commentator on Fox News who negotiated Mr. Ailes’s exit from the network amid his sexual misconduct scandal.Half of Americans have now received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, and with children ages 12 to 15 now eligible for immunizations, the United States appears to be getting the coronavirus pandemic under control. But despite the tremendous progress, it’s still not clear that the nation will ever truly reach the herd immunity threshold — the point at which enough people in a population are immune to a pathogen to limit its spread.
More important, we may not need to achieve that goal in order to escape the pandemic.
Reaching the herd immunity threshold doesn’t guarantee that people cannot be infected by a pathogen. But the closer a community gets, the more transmission slows down, which benefits everyone. The current rate of new Covid-19 cases in the United States right now shows this phenomenon in action. Forty percent of the U.S. population is fully vaccinated, and the number of new cases of Covid-19 reported each day is now one-tenth of what it was at the pandemic’s apex in January.
Last year many scientists suggested the herd immunity threshold would be reached when 60 to 70 percent of the population was immune, either because of vaccination or exposure to the virus. Scientists have now revised this number upward, to at least 80 percent. But there is no single, universal herd immunity threshold. The number depends on the transmissibility of a disease, its variants and the characteristics of the population it’s invading.
Transmissibility is not fixed: It can vary based on a population’s behavior, demographics and health. We’ve seen this in action with Covid-19, which has spread far more quickly in some populations, as a result of differences in disease-mitigation efforts, housing density, age, occupations and health conditions. New coronavirus variants such as B.1.1.7, which is now the predominant strain in the United States, are more transmissible. And that increases the herd immunity threshold.For some people, an extra $250 a month is the difference between making rent and being evicted, which renders that income indispensable rather than supplemental. But OnlyFans simply didn’t pay enough, and paid too slowly, for it to be a viable option for many. The funds from a sale on OnlyFans take seven days to appear in a creator’s account, after which it may take three to five days to transfer to their bank, which means a person must have that kind of time — and a bank account, and a space in which to work, and reliable access to the internet — in order for the site to be viable. The Web 2.0’s shift to digital advertising and commerce leaves behind the most vulnerable. Caty Simon, an organizer of Whose Corner Is It Anyway, a mutual-aid group by and for low-income, drug-using and housing-insecure sex workers, said she was incredibly frustrated by “the ubiquitous directive to just hop online” that dominated the early months of the pandemic.
“So much of middle-class life has become virtual,” she said, speaking also of government services, like vaccine appointments and applications for financial support. For the members of Simon’s organization, who may be dealing with cognitive difficulties and tech unfamiliarity as well as extremely limited smartphone access, “the skill and resource gaps are huge.” Moreover, depictions of OnlyFans as an equal-opportunity platform “ignore how thoroughly that market is saturated.”
Regardless of how many workers transitioned to OnlyFans during the pandemic, “sex work in person didn’t stop,” Blunt said. “Many people have continued seeing clients in person, whether that’s due to financial need or personal preference.” Indoor and in-person providers frequently charge more than a hundred dollars — including up to and over a thousand — for an hour of their time. Hustling for subscriptions at $8 and $12 a pop, as one escort put it, “just doesn’t compare.”
Predictably, the tolerableness and profitability of in-person dates, for workers, tracked along lines of financial stability. Escorts who were able to take a few months off were comfortable with the way they returned to work and how many clients they saw, but workers with less economic leeway, even those who previously felt good about their job, were far less positive. Simon said that her organization’s members “definitely saw more instances of abuse and assault” during the pandemic and that she would be “really worried” about what a surge in demand — as per the common prediction of a Roaring ’20s-style snapback to public life — would mean for them. Though an absence of business for workers is “10 times more dangerous” than an uptick, most members are currently unvaccinated and clients are “generally more cavalier with health risks than we are.”
Non-sex workers tend to see online work as categorically safer than in-person work, but it’s more accurate to say that online work entails different types of threats. The New York Post’s December outing of a local paramedic as an OnlyFans creator is one example of how senselessly cruel (and high-profile) consequences can be; the woman was a private citizen whose actions were of no discernible public interest, yet the paper elected to devote an entire article to her legal name, pictures and social media handles. Stigma against sex workers remains an injurious force, and being already out doesn’t inure one from familial strife or social conflicts. One sex worker I spoke with who lives alone had a “fan” show up at her front door. Another said her family was “destroyed” after a member took issue with something she posted on OnlyFans. “To be visible in an online ecosystem that wants your erasure opens you up to a whole host of risks,” said Blunt, who is troubled by the ways sex workers are losing “the ability to stay anonymous.”
After over a year of sustained effort, Gia is in the top 0.5 percent of OnlyFans earners, though she confirms that number’s fluctuations can be so discordant with her profits that it feels “arbitrary.” Since paying to break the lease on her work space in July, she has taken in enough to cover her bills, and her past two months were so profitable that her income matched what it was before the pandemic. She even invested in an ergonomic desk chair, “which costs more than you think!” She’s proud of how she managed to teach herself new skills on two separate high-stakes occasions: “I feel I have some control over my situation and not like I have to exist in the margins. I could actually apply these to some other businesses.” For as well suited as she was to in-person work, and as well as it paid, she has no plans to go back.
Her fans, and Kimberly Kane’s fans, and the fans of other 1 percenters, probably won’t abandon their entertainers of choice simply because they get a vaccine or start working in an office again. “I have this very strange bond with a lot of my fans who have been with me since the pandemic,” said Gia, who posted daily video diaries early in the pandemic in which she would check in on (and flash) her followers. “It became a constant for them. And it became a constant for me, too. They grew with me as I figured it out.” The OnlyFans customers I spoke with expected subscriptions to be a mainstay in their future budgeting, because they felt connected to certain performers and saw paying for porn as an ethical act. But most anticipated spending less on the site as the pandemic subsides. They assumed that the need for intimate interaction would be fulfilled through encounters, compensated or otherwise, that take place in shared physical spaces.The overwhelming majority of the new energy spending being proposed in the budget would depend on Congress passing Mr. Biden’s infrastructure proposal, which still faces an uncertain fate. Republicans in the Senate have pushed back against spending on items like electric vehicle charging stations.
In his budget, Mr. Biden is proposing $265 billion over the next decade to expand and extend federal tax breaks for companies that build clean energy sources such as offshore wind turbines or battery storage on the grid. He is also calling for $9.7 billion worth of tax credits to help maintain America’s existing fleet of nuclear reactors, which do not produce carbon dioxide emissions but have faced the risk of closure in recent years because of competition from cheap natural gas.
The budget also proposes $10 billion in tax credits for trucks that do not produce planet-warming emissions, such as those powered by batteries or hydrogen, as well as $6.6 billion for cleaner jet fuels and $23 billion to incentivize new electric transmission lines that can transport wind and solar power from far-flung regions in the country. And it proposes to spend $23 billion over the next decade on tax credits for companies that install “carbon capture” technology at power plants or factories.
Mr. Biden is requesting to increase the Energy Department’s budget by $4.3 billion, or 10 percent, with much of the focus on enabling the deployment of clean energy sources. That includes $1.9 billion to help make homes more energy-efficient and speed up permitting of transmission lines.
Mr. Biden is also calling for federal agencies to spend $50 billion over the next decade to procure clean-energy technologies for their own use, including electrified Postal Service vehicles and lower-carbon materials such as steel and cement, as well as electricity from advanced nuclear power plants that are still under development.
To a smaller extent, Mr. Biden is also proposing to cut the federal government’s spending on fossil fuels, by rescinding $35 billion worth of subsidies over the next decade for oil, gas and coal companies, including the repeal of tax breaks for well depreciation and a tax credit for drilling expenses. The administration is proposing to raise an additional $84 billion by changing how the government treats extraction and foreign income for oil and gas producers.
In addition to spending, Mr. Biden’s climate plans will depend heavily on a separate proposal for a clean electricity standard that would require the nation’s electric utilities to steadily increase their use of new low-carbon energy sources until they had zeroed out their emissions in 2035. That policy is only mentioned in passing in the budget, and it would require Congress’s approval.
— Brad PlumerIn other areas, Mr. Biden is pushing what amounts to a permanent increase in the size of the federal footprint on the U.S. economy. Since 1980, annual federal spending has been, on average, about one-fifth the size of the nation’s economic output; under Mr. Biden’s plans, that would grow to close to one-fourth. The federal work force would also grow: The American Federation of Government Employees thanked the president on Friday for proposing “substantial staffing increases to multiple agencies.”
That growth would be funded by businesses, high earners and federal borrowing.
The budget projects an additional $14.5 trillion would be added to the national debt over the course of the next decade. It also projects a doubling of the amount of tax revenue collected from corporations by 2025, compared with 2020, the year before Mr. Biden took office. But it would take more than a decade for tax revenues to fully cover the costs of Mr. Biden’s agenda.
Corporate tax increases would raise $2 trillion over a decade, with nearly half of that revenue coming from higher taxes on money that multinational companies like Microsoft, Procter & Gamble and General Motors earn outside the United States.
Tax increases on high earners — those making above $400,000 per year — would raise another $750 billion over the decade. That includes raising the top marginal income tax rate to 39.6 percent from 37 percent for married couples making just over $500,000 a year and individuals making just over $450,000. The proposal also estimates a near-doubling of capital gains tax rates for people earning more than $1 million a year. Revenue from those tax increases would begin reducing deficits by the end of the decade.
Yet while Mr. Biden has pledged not to raise taxes on people earning less than $400,000 a year, the budget assumes that tax cuts passed by Republicans in 2017 would expire as scheduled at the end of 2025, which would raise taxes on most Americans. On Friday, administration officials said the president would work with Congress before 2025 to ensure people earning less than $400,000 would not face a tax increase.
Biden’s 2022 Budget A new year, a new budget: The 2022 fiscal year for the federal government begins on October 1, and President Biden has revealed what he’d like to spend, starting then. But any spending requires approval from both chambers of Congress. Ambitious total spending: President Biden would like the federal government to spend $6 trillion in the 2022 fiscal year, and for total spending to rise to $8.2 trillion by 2031. That would take the United States to its highest sustained levels of federal spending since World War II, while running deficits above $1.3 trillion through the next decade. Infrastructure plan: The budget outlines the president’s desired first year of investment in his American Jobs Plan, which seeks to fund improvements to roads, bridges, public transit and more with a total of $2.3 billion over eight years. Families plan: The budget also addresses the other major spending proposal Biden has already rolled out, his American Families Plan, aimed at bolstering the United States’ social safety net by expanding access to education, reducing the cost of child care and supporting women in the work force. Mandatory programs: As usual, mandatory spending on programs like Social Security, Medicaid and Medicare make up a significant portion of the proposed budget. They are growing as America’s population ages. Discretionary spending: Funding for the individual budgets of the agencies and programs under the executive branch would reach around $1.5 trillion in 2022, a 16 percent increase from the previous budget. How Biden would pay for it: The president would largely fund his agenda by raising taxes on corporations and high earners, which would begin to shrink budget deficits in the 2030s. Administration officials have said tax increases would fully offset the jobs and families plans over the course of 15 years, which the budget request backs up. In the meantime, the budget deficit would remain above $1.3 trillion each year.
It was one of several areas in which Mr. Biden’s team chose not to apply traditional budget estimates to his administration’s policy initiatives.
In its budget summary, the White House signaled a commitment to a range of major health care proposals, including the creation of a public option health insurance plan; an effort to reduce prescription drug costs; a plan to lower the age of eligibility for Medicare; and an expansion of Medicare benefits, to add vision, hearing and dental coverage. But the administration declined to calculate the costs of those policy changes.The Cuban performance artist Luis Manuel Otero Alcántara’s home in San Isidro, one of Old Havana’s poor and majority-Black barrios, lies steps away from Cuba’s National Archive and the childhood home of José Martí, Cuba’s exalted 19th-century hero and fighter for racial justice. The promises of history and the grinding realities of life after 62 years of Communist rule collide in San Isidro.
Mr. Otero Alcántara is a founder of the San Isidro Movement, a group of writers, artists and intellectuals who are openly challenging the state’s claims that the Castro-led revolution eliminated racism and that Cuba’s particular brand of socialism has served the poor more than the state. Like others before him, Mr. Otero Alcántara has paid dearly for his activism. Since 2017, Cuban state security has arrested the artist dozens of times, kept him under constant surveillance, seized his art and subjected him to repeated interrogations and a defamation campaign led by state media.
Access to social media, which has become widespread only in the past two years, has provided an outlet for self-expression for artists like Mr. Otero Alcántara on an island where the narrative has long been carefully crafted by the state. In the protest anthem “Patria y Vida,” or “Fatherland and Life,” a rebuke of the revolution’s slogan, “Fatherland or Death,” written by various musicians and released on YouTube in February, Alexander Delgado of the Grammy-award-winning group Gente de Zona sings: “No more lies! My people are asking for freedom! No more indoctrination!” Mr. Otero Alcántara makes a cameo in one scene, brandishing a Cuban flag. The video received nearly five million views in a few weeks. It angered Cuban officials, who attacked the artists as “traitors” spouting imperial “vomit.” On April 26, the police arrested one of the singers, Maykel Castillo, known as El Osorbo; his whereabouts remain unknown.
A Castro is no longer running Cuba, yet we are witnessing a return to Soviet-style tactics to control ideas and silence public criticism. Cuban officials are using the regime’s old playbook — arrests and intimidation — to crush oppositional voices.“The thing is, I was born brilliant,” Cruella de Vil says in the new live-action Disney prequel to “One Hundred and One Dalmatians.” “Born bad. And a little bit mad.”
Not quite.
In her first incarnation, Cruella de Vil was a married woman with a cat.
Created by the British playwright and children’s novelist Dodie Smith, Cruella was born in a 1956 children’s novel, “The 101 Dalmatians.” Yes, the skunk hair and selfish nature were there from the start, but the original Cruella was more of a spoiled socialite than a Maleficent — at least outwardly — and conveyed a preternatural calm. She doused her food in pepper, was expelled from school for drinking ink, boasted of having the loudest car horn in London and was married to a wealthy furrier — though not for love, apparently.
She wanted unfettered access to as many fabulous fur coats as possible.
Through the years, the Cruella character has been featured in a number of adaptations, including two Disney animated films, an animated TV series, two live-action “101 Dalmatians” takes (in which she is portrayed by Glenn Close), a BBC audio drama, a stage musical, a young-adult book series and now the live-action origin story, “Cruella,” with Emma Stone as the title character. And, while the Dalmatians have always been a constant, Cruella has gotten more fabulous, funny and — dare we say it? — likable.That makes Mr. Biden’s upcoming summit meeting on June 16 in Geneva with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia all the more tense. Mr. Biden’s aides have said “strategic stability” will be the highest item on the agenda.
In a statement on Thursday evening, the United States blamed Russia for the Open Skies Treaty’s demise.
“The United States regrets that the Treaty on Open Skies has been undermined by Russia’s violations,” the State Department said in the statement. “In concluding its review of the treaty, the United States therefore does not intend to seek to rejoin it, given Russia’s failure to take any actions to return to compliance.”
The statement also noted that Russia’s actions toward Ukraine, which include amassing troops near the border in a show of force, did not support renewing a treaty aimed at heading off military surprises.
“Russia’s behavior, including its recent actions with respect to Ukraine, is not that of a partner committed to confidence building,” the statement said.
Mr. Biden, who proposed the meeting with Mr. Putin, has argued that there needs to be a more stable relationship between Russia and the United States even as his administration objects to actions by Mr. Putin, including the poisoning of a dissident, the buildup near Ukraine and the interference in the 2016 and 2020 elections.
As part of that search for stability, Mr. Biden’s diplomatic team negotiated with Russia an extension of the New Start treaty, which limits the United States and Russia to 1,550 deployed nuclear missiles each. After the withdrawal from the Open Skies Treaty, New Start will be the only major nuclear treaty left between the two nations.It was in 2006, during their collaboration on a collection of essays by Native American women, that Kauanui first heard rumors about Smith’s identity. By then, the two had grown close, even as the trajectory of their careers had diverged. They had both graduated with doctoral degrees and landed jobs at well-regarded universities: Kauanui at Wesleyan University and Smith at the University of Michigan. But while Kauanui was developing a narrow expertise on Hawaiian indigeneity, Smith had become nothing less than “an icon of Native American feminism,” as the publication Colorlines later called her. She co-founded the national organization Incite! Women of Color Against Violence; was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize for her advocacy work; and aligned herself with prominent activists, including her dissertation adviser Angela Davis and Winona LaDuke, who later wrote the introduction for Smith’s first book.
That fall, a friend of Kauanui’s — aware of her friendship and ongoing collaboration with Smith — reached out and asked whether Smith was really Cherokee. “Oh, no, she’s totally Cherokee,” Kauanui told that friend. She wondered whether the concern was that Smith was “not Native enough” because she grew up off the reservation.
But the next year, Kauanui was shown confidential emails that complicated the narrative. In early 2007, an official from the Cherokee Nation began emailing Smith, asking about her connections to the Cherokees given that she wasn’t enrolled — a word used for citizens in a tribal nation. Smith’s responses were evasive, and reading them, Kauanui couldn’t figure out why she didn’t just clarify who her relatives were. It was, she came to realize, the first moment she really doubted Smith. But as so many others would later do, she brushed her concerns aside.
In the months that followed, Kauanui was distracted by her work helping to organize a conference that spring at the University of Oklahoma. The conference was a step toward starting a national organization to bring together scholars working on Native and Indigenous issues. Smith was at the conference, too, and one afternoon during a panel session, she pulled Kauanui outside, saying she needed to talk to her about something serious. “I just went home to Long Beach, and I found out from my mother that I’m not actually enrolled,” she said, according to Kauanui’s memory of the conversation. “I have to try to figure this out because there are people from the Cherokee Nation who are going to meet with me here.”
The two were on a bench on the Norman campus. Smith seemed anxious and Kauanui wanted to help, but again she was confused: From the emails, she knew that Smith had already been told she wasn’t enrolled. Kauanui couldn’t mention them — she’d been sworn to secrecy — and she still thought there had to be an explanation. She told Smith to share the names of her relatives with tribal officials, sure that they would be able to straighten things out.
But Smith told her that it wasn’t that simple. And indeed, it wasn’t. Being “enrolled” in an American Indian tribe essentially means being a legal citizen of that tribal nation. It’s a status that can be passed down by parents who are also enrolled but also one that can be claimed, depending on the citizenship rules of each tribe, if an individual can prove he or she is a child, grandchild or at times even great-grandchild of someone who was a tribal member. As the Cherokee genealogical researcher David Cornsilk would later tell me, Smith couldn’t even do that: She had known since the 1990s that her family had no identifiable Native American roots, because Smith had hired Cornsilk to look for them and he found nothing.
Although he can no longer recall the exact dates, Cornsilk says Smith first asked him to research her mother’s side of the family in the early 1990s, when she was working as a Native organizer in Chicago. Near the end of the decade, she hired him again to look into her father’s side — around the time she was starting graduate school at Santa Cruz and introducing herself as Cherokee and also after she accepted the first of two Ford Foundation fellowships then earmarked for underrepresented groups in academia.My employer, a large university, recently instructed us in an email titled “Vaccine Etiquette” not to ask fellow employees if they are vaccinated. I feel I have an interest in knowing this information for two reasons: First, the C.D.C. offers different guidelines for the vaccinated and unvaccinated. So I need this information to know which guidelines to follow. Second, if we are engaging in behavior that creates risk (e.g., breathing in an enclosed space), I have an interest in knowing what the risks are, in the same way that before having sex with someone I have a cognizable interest in knowing their S.T.D. status. Most people would not consider asking a person their S.T.D. status rude when both parties are engaging in potentially risky behavior. Why is this different?
Do I have an ethical right to ask about vaccine status, even if it’s “rude”? Name Withheld
Given that our country has had roughly 600,000 pandemic deaths, I wonder whether “etiquette” is the most apposite term here. Use your flatware from the outside in; hold the door open for the person behind you — such is the usual remit of etiquette. But when public-health officials devise and promulgate guidelines that involve public health, they do not consult Amy Vanderbilt. As you note, the C.D.C.’s behavioral guidelines vary with people’s vaccination status. If someone may be increasing your risk of illness, you’re entitled to know. And if you’re entitled to know, you’re entitled to ask.
People, of course, may decline to answer, in which case it would be reasonable to assume that they have not been vaccinated. (Despite the claims of a certain Georgia congresswoman, I should add, HIPAA has no bearing on what you or your employer can ask; it restricts disclosures made by health care providers and insurers.) Getting vaccinated makes a person much less likely to transmit the virus, but if such transmission does occur, those most vulnerable to infection are the unvaccinated. So asking about someone’s status would show consideration for that person too. And of course, colleagues who are open with one another about their vaccination status are probably getting on better than those who aren’t.The Bible depicts an ideal land, one flowing with milk and honey. Yet Israel has always been one thing in dreams and another in the tumult of everyday life. When the five books of the Torah end, the Israelites are still in the wilderness and Moses, our leader out of Egypt, has been denied the promised land. The message is manifest: The perfect place does not yet exist, and you must enter a messy and contested land armed with the vision God has given you. Jews conclude the Passover Seder with “next year in Jerusalem.” Yet if one has the Seder in Jerusalem, the conclusion is not “next year here.” Rather, it is “next year in a rebuilt Jerusalem” — a city that reflects the ideals and aspirations of sages and prophets, one marked with piety and plenty.
For many Jews, that vision is as relevant today as it was in ancient Israel. That means the past, present and future of the land is not just an argument about settlements or structures alone, but also an ideal of a place of safety, a heavenly city on earth, one that we continue to strive and pray for, especially after the violence of these last few weeks.
Though we famously admonish ourselves to ever remember Jerusalem in Psalm 137, the sacred city of stone and tears is not the sole focus of Jewish yearning. Israel is haunted by historical memories. In the northern town of Tsfat, a pilgrim can wander among the graves of the Jewish mystics who re-established a community in that mountain town after the expulsion from Spain in 1492: Isaac Luria, who taught that God’s self-contraction made way for the world; Joseph Caro, author of the Shulchan Aruch, the authoritative code of Jewish law, who believed an angel dictated visions to him in the evening. They were joined there by Greek-born Solomon Alkabetz, who wrote the poem L’cha Dodi (Come to Me, Beloved), a lyrical love song to the Sabbath that is sung in synagogues all over the world each Friday night.
Despite the deep meditations on evil and afterlife in Jewish tradition, the concept of hell is not as developed in Judaism as in other traditions. However, there is a popular name for it: Gehenna. It derives from a place where children in antiquity were said to have been sacrificed to the pagan god Moloch.
In 1979, archaeologists began excavating in the area that is believed to be ancient Gehenna. Not far from the walls of the Old City of Jerusalem, they found what is considered to be one of the oldest bits of scripture that exists in the world, more than 400 years older than the Dead Sea Scrolls. It dates from the time just before the destruction of the First Temple, the Temple of Solomon, in 586 B.C. The scorched ground yielded two rolled-up silver amulets that are on display to this day in the Israel Museum. When painstakingly unfurled, the text was almost verbatim to the Bible verses:
“May God bless you and keep you.
May God’s face shine upon you and be gracious to you.
May God turn His face toward you and give you peace.” (Numbers 6:24-26)It’s been deeply comforting to think that whatever I am writing will soon be in the hands of someone else, especially in a time of so much physical distancing. I’ve sent letters as far as Argentina and South Korea, and as near as only a few blocks from my door. Some of the handwriting I’ve seen, like mine, has been laughably illegible; other letters are aesthetically works of art. One friend, an international student isolating on an otherwise-emptied college campus in New Jersey, enclosed a petal from a blossoming cherry tree. In these pages, I read the smiles I cannot see.
I’m not alone in finding comfort in letter-writing these days. A recent New York Times article reported on the rise in snail mail and handwritten messages; the practice seems to have caught on as people cope with grief from the pandemic. That I’ve only started writing letters now is ironic and sad, too, because the U.S. Postal Service is bleeding. The economic devastation of the pandemic could be the final blow that ends one of our nation’s oldest and most cherished institutions. While an increase in package volume during the first few months of the pandemic is providing temporary relief, no amount of letters we send can make up for the billions in federal funding that are needed to save it.
And yet, as with so many other things these days, I’m holding out hope. A Postal Service survey published in May suggested younger people in particular were more likely to want to send cards and letters during this time. Though that doesn’t mean a lot of us are actually doing it, part of me likes to think there’s some Florentino Ariza out there, writing impassioned letters to the girl he’s not permitted to see.
More likely, it’s because we’re missing our friends and classmates; we’re so badly aching for the simple physical connections that the coronavirus has taken away without a promise of near return. Perhaps it’s because a letter is an unhindered way of working through anxieties, thoughts and emotions during a period of nonstop information and tremendous grief. Perhaps it’s simply a break from a screen or just another way to mark the passage of time when the world seems to be on an indefinite hold.
In that sense, there are plenty of reasons to start writing letters now — not least because there’s something to be said for slowing down. “When I got your letter, the first thing I wanted to do was text you a picture … but I quickly caught myself,” another childhood friend wrote. “What an affront to letter-writing that would have been.” I smiled as I pulled out a blank sheet to start my response. I like to think I’ll keep this up for as long as I can, or at least as long as someone is willing to write back.
Jordan Salama (@jordansalama19) is a writer and the author of the forthcoming “Every Day the River Changes.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Over the past 50 years, Pride has evolved. At times, it feels unrecognizable because it has gone so mainstream. It has taken on the feel of a holiday, but with corporate sponsorship. What began in New York City is now celebrated in cities all across the world. Pride is a month of marches, parties and events. The celebrations are dynamic and broadly inclusive. Straight allies bring their children. Queer people bring our children. I love seeing how Pride has grown, but it sometimes feels as if we have forgotten who Pride is for. And it is frustrating that some corporations have commodified it, drenching their marketing materials with rainbow colors but doing little to celebrate and support the L.G.B.T.Q. community during the rest of the year. Nonetheless, at its best, Pride celebrations continue to offer space for us to know we belong to a community in which we are embraced for who we are.
We are a sprawling, unruly community. As we continue to think about who belongs at Pride, questions and, inevitably, controversies arise. Some people, for example, want to exclude the kink community or at least expect kinky queers to tone down their public expressions of sexuality to make Pride more family-friendly. This kind of respectability politics is nothing new. There have always been calls for the L.G.B.T.Q. community to neuter the sex from our sexuality, to temper our flamboyance, to bend to heterosexual norms. Let’s be clear: We should not have to contort ourselves to make straight people more comfortable with our lives. Assimilation cannot be the price we must pay for freedom.
The idea that we should now forgive the past and make peace with oppressive police forces is ludicrous. It is infuriating. In an essay for The Washington Post, the columnist Jonathan Capehart wrote a vigorous entreaty for L.G.B.T.Q. officers to be welcomed at Pride celebrations. The New York Times editorial board took a similar stance. Mr. Capehart empathizes with people who don’t want police officers at Pride, but he argues that they are wrong, calling it “beyond troubling that a community made up of so many who’ve been rejected by their families because of who they are is now turning on its members because of what they do for a living.”
This false equivalence defies credulity. We are not turning on anyone. Law enforcement is not an innate identity. The police are not marginalized. They aren’t disowned by their families for carrying a gun and badge. They haven’t been brutalized or arrested because of how they make a living.
And they aren’t actually being rejected; they are being asked to respect boundaries. L.G.B.T.Q. officers are more than welcome to join Pride celebrations — unarmed and in civilian clothing. They are being asked to confront their complicity with an institution that does more harm than good to vulnerable communities. It is telling that some of these officers refuse to do so. We don’t need the police marching alongside us. We don’t need them at Pride providing security.
What we need, what we’ve always wanted and deserved, is what Debbie and I found when we first marched at Pride: a welcoming space where we can be safe and free.Next to me on the couch, one of my dogs twitches his feet and curls his lower lip in his sleep. His tail thumps on a soft pillow. An “urph” — maybe a stifled bark — escapes his mouth and he wakes himself up, looking at me accusingly. “That was you!” I tell him.
As a writer and dog-cognition researcher, I can — and do — spend the greatest part of the day observing dogs, talking to dogs and hanging out beside my dog while working. And now, in this extraordinary time, many more of us find ourselves working at home with our dogs full time. Good for us — and great for the dogs.
Quarantine, and even social distancing, is meant to impose an isolation that most of us, as a highly social species, work hard throughout our lives to avoid. Even the most introverted of us need company — some touchstone of a shared existence through time. In reflecting on our changed society, the isolation of the elderly and the sick seems especially cruel. In many places, older residents quarantined in nursing homes cannot have visitors, and are suffering not just from potentially fatal infections but also from the loss of the company of their family members and the comfort of their presence and touch — a biological urge.
Our drive to keep animals, dogs in particular, strikes me as similar in nature: Their simple presence, and their willingness to be touched, is viscerally satisfying. Time spent reading on the couch is massively improved by a dog’s head resting on my leg; a warm, snuffling muzzle directed at me is instantly calming. Social media abounds with images of dogs (some bemused, some wagging their tails so hard as to sprain them) alongside their isolated persons: Dogs are now our proxy for other humans.These shenanigans came after Mr. Barr was revealed to have written a memo for Mr. Trump while a private citizen, a long document that concluded that, yes, you guessed it, the president was not guilty of obstruction of justice.
The Justice Department is the one cabinet agency that has a value in its name — “justice.” Its iconography — a blindfolded Lady Justice — underscores the idea that everyone has to play by the same rules. Mr. Barr appears to have desecrated that cardinal principle. The public has a right to know what he and his Justice Department lawyers did and why they did it.
We already had one by-the-book official, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, try to apply regular principles to a deeply abnormal presidency, and we witnessed the result: a distorted impeachment and the nullification of potential criminal charges.
The problem for the new Justice Department is: What does it do now? Should it depart from ordinary rules because the last administration did so? If it doesn’t appeal Judge Jackson’s decision, isn’t the department allowing a precedent to be set that private litigants can ask for and get all sorts of prosecutorial materials?
No. Good surgeons don’t always operate, and good appeals lawyers don’t always appeal. Here, Justice Department lawyers could have safeguarded the department’s interests by saying they disagreed with the decision, but because it was a trial court decision, it was not precedential for other cases and not appropriate to appeal.
And the department then could have voluntarily released the memo without conceding that it was required by the Freedom of Information Act. When the Justice Department doesn’t appeal a decision, that doesn’t mean it agrees with it. Lawyers there decide not to appeal all the time for many reasons. In short, there were better solutions here that would have walked the tightrope between the public’s need to know and the Justice Department’s general need to protect prosecutorial interests.
In the end, there must be a zone of confidential government decision-making and privacy. Good government depends on it. But that zone is a two-way street: It also depends on government officials who behave as if they deserve to be there. The Justice Department’s decision to appeal Judge Jackson’s order treated this case like any other garden-variety case.
It wasn’t.
Neal K. Katyal is a professor at Georgetown Law School, was an acting solicitor general in the Obama administration and wrote, with Sam Koppelman, “Impeach: The Case Against Donald Trump.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.The pandemic, and especially remote work, has created new opportunities to work too hard. The W.H.O. director-general, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, noted that teleworking has blurred the line between work and home and that people who have survived layoffs at struggling businesses have ended up working longer hours. One survey found an overwhelming majority of American employees have shortened, postponed or canceled vacations during the pandemic.
The red flags about overwork have been waving for years all around the world. Fatigue has been identified as a factor in industrial disasters like the BP oil refinery explosion in Texas City in 2005 and the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island. In Japan, long working hours are so common that “karoshi,” translated as “death by overwork,” is a legally recognized cause of death.
So, work less and live longer and better, right?
Once upon a time, that seemed inevitable. As prosperity increased and automation replaced human labor, people were expected to devote themselves to hobbies and family life. The British economist John Maynard Keynes was so certain industrialized countries were on a steady trajectory toward less work and longer vacations that he predicted people in the 21st century would work just three hours a day — 15 hours a week. “For the first time since his creation man will be faced with his real, his permanent problem,” he wrote in a 1930 essay, “how to occupy the leisure, which science and compound interest will have won for him, to live wisely and agreeably and well.”
Not in the United States, sir.
Americans on average labor for fewer hours than their grandparents, but they still work nearly 40 hours per week — and many take pride in working the longer hours the W.H.O. considers dangerous.
While Europe has imposed a measure of health-protecting leisure on its workers, with the European Union requiring at least 20 working days of vacation per year and many countries mandating a lot more (30 days for the French), the United States remains proudly alone as the “no-vacation nation.”Many of us who in 2015 cheered the Supreme Court’s Obergefell decision, which recognized same-sex marriage as a constitutional right, would admit, if we’re honest, that we had not taken the idea seriously either when we first heard it discussed years earlier. But a lawyer named Evan Wolfson imagined a world where sexual orientation did not determine a person’s access to the legal, financial and emotional benefits of marriage. In 2001 — before the Supreme Court’s decision in Lawrence v. Texas overturned a 17-year-old precedent and decriminalized homosexuality as a matter of constitutional law — he founded an organization called Freedom to Marry to bring that world into being.
Mr. Wolfson wasn’t alone in his quest, of course; I could list many other contributors. My point is that during notably dark years for gay rights (the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy that kept L.G.B.T.Q. people from serving openly in the military lasted until 2010) it took imagination to suppose that the sun would rise one day on a different landscape. And to cite another significant civil rights breakthrough, it took imagination for the authors of the Americans With Disabilities Act to envision a world in which people with disabilities receive access not as a matter of grace but as a legal right.
It was only late in her career, when the court turned sharply to the right and she began to raise her voice in dissent, that Justice Ginsburg became the iconic R.B.G., fondly dubbed “notorious” and beloved on the left and by women and girls who weren’t particularly politically active. I’ll confess that the R.B.G. mania — the Halloween costumes for little girls, the collars, the mugs and other items decorated with her face — always made me a little uncomfortable. People sometimes gave me such paraphernalia; I thanked them and discreetly tucked the items away.
It’s not that I didn’t appreciate her powerful dissenting opinions or wasn’t cheered by the thought that little girls could have such a role model when I myself had never met a woman who was a lawyer until after I had graduated from college. It was that the stuff, the whole shtick, seemed so kitschy when her actual accomplishments were so subtle and substantive.
But on the night of her death, as I watched the televised images of thousands of people gathering spontaneously in front of the court, I saw the Notorious R.B.G. phenomenon in a different light. Her unlikely status as a popular icon said as much, if not more, about us as it did about her. We needed her. We needed this fragile octogenarian who could get up repeatedly from her sick bed and speak truth to power. (“You can’t speak TRUTH without RUTH,” as a popular saying went.)
We needed her to call out Donald Trump as a “faker,” even though judges aren’t supposed to say such things and she had to eat her words. We projected onto her our fears about the course of events at the court and in the law, and our hopes that her cleareyed, always civil dissection of where her colleagues had gone wrong would somehow bring them around. We needed her.
We still do.
Linda Greenhouse will discuss Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s legacy and what comes next for the Supreme Court with Lauren Kelley of the editorial board on Tuesday at 3 p.m. Eastern on Instagram Live (@nytopinion).
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.For instance, when I flip past a television cop show, all of which now seem to feature male-female partners (meant to signal gender progress), I notice the male cop is invariably wearing a suit and the female cop is often busting out of a tank top. I suppose I could read this as a display of sexual confidence and toughness rather than a billboard for sexual availability, but the mandatory brandishing of breasts does seem to offset any gains in social power. Either way, she must be freezing.
The convergence between the sexed-up wardrobe onscreen and the sexed-up treatment of women offscreen seems both obvious and the great verboten subject. Seth MacFarlane was widely denounced for his painfully truth-telling (and name-naming) musical number, “We Saw Your Boobs,” at the 2013 Academy Awards — considerable umbrage was taken. But isn’t it a curious fact that so many directors manage to portray the complexity of their male characters with so much less of the actor’s anatomy displayed?
Demands for sexual pay-to-play by a rutting producer holding all the career cards may be horrific. It may well be criminal if force is involved (or perhaps not: Quid pro quo requests aren’t actually a crime, only a violation of civil employment law). But it’s not exactly a departure. In a system already rigged for sexual manipulation, what’s most notable about Harvey Weinstein is that he tried to rig it even more, traversing the distance between expectation, insistence and (some allege) force with such alacrity that his targets couldn’t even think.
Some say women commodifying our sexuality on our own terms is a form of empowerment. It’s a subject of continuing feminist debate, from Madonna’s heyday to sex workers’ unions. For my part, I wonder about the practical problems of transactional sex: How do you enforce the terms of the deal on an uneven playing field? Even in cases where women yielded to quid pro quo demands — and maybe a better term for this is “decision” rather than “choice” — it’s not clear that Mr. Weinstein actually came through with the goods. Wow, who would have thought such a stand-up guy couldn’t be trusted?
Traditionally, women are socialized to be sexually strategic; men not to take no for an answer. Feminism has tried to rewrite that narrative, but the culture remains saturated with images that normalize it, that make women’s sexuality our selling point. It’s not like any of this is hidden. Consider the armies of young women tottering around the nightclub district of any American city in camisoles and stilettos every weekend night of the year even in the dead of winter (aren’t they freezing?) because that’s what sexiness looks like onscreen, and maybe some form of reward will follow.
There’s no overestimating the importance #MeToo has had in forcing cultural change on industries and institutions across the country. It’s exciting to see that momentum start to transform the screen images that shape the larger culture too: Women playing down the come-hither thing, more offbeat-looking women, a few chunky women (and not just in comedy specials). Now how about those “window-dressing” roles too — or maybe calling a close to the era of women as window dressing altogether?
Mr. Weinstein may be our most flagrant monster at the moment. But what if the whole system is abhorrent? The basic acceptance of gender inequality is, to me, the subtext of his trial. It also happens to be the question our courts are least equipped to deal with.This is why within blues songs, there is an immense weight, but even more than that — particularly in the Hill Country — there is a sense of celebration, of praise. These are songs that get people moving out of their seats, songs not just about lost love, but about the glory of love’s returning. When Junior Kimbrough sings “Stay All Night,” the language drips with ache, but the ache is not sadness. It is the exhaustion of joyful longing, the same thing that settles deep into Marvin Gaye’s voice at the end of “Let’s Get It On,” when he’s pushed his pleading to its limits and he’s breathless with desire. Kimbrough, at the doorstep of desire and searching for the keys to the kingdom, moans, “Love me baby, love me girl.” And this is a song not about sadness, but about celebration of the potential for what might come, what might rest on the other side of a long night. These are the great blues songs. Suffering is the marathon; pleasure is the short sprint that happens during the in-between moments.
I’ve known elders or friends who will drop the needle down on some old blues records at the start of a party, to warm people up. Because you can dance to the blues just as well as you can sink into the thick and immovable nature of them. You can sob along to the blues, though you can also pursue a more joyful route, peppered with laughter or kissing or swinging on a porch swing with your legs pushing up against the night air. The logic, as I’ve always understood it, is that the blues is something you get through first in order to get to everything else. It lives inside of you, so that you might be lucky enough to see the world better, more honestly, with more dexterity. This, too, is why so many of the great blues songs are about leaving one place and arriving somewhere else. About seeing something that, in a moment, seems impossible to see and then carrying it with you for the rest of your life.
When people talk about the spontaneity of the blues, or how it has a type of freedom underneath it, it is in part because the blues had a long history before recorded music. It had a history of traveling from one person to the next to the next, like good gossip, bending along the way. “It’s like how diamonds never lose their value,” Auerbach told me, still twirling the lighter on his fingers. “Because all these musicians — the really good ones — they’re never the same. They always put their own stamp on everything.”
This was a sound and tradition forged by working-class players, playing songs after their days of labor, sustained by the people who would show up and nothing else. R.L. Burnside was a farmer, a fisherman. He would have gone on playing the music whether anyone came and recorded him or not, satisfied with sustaining a tradition in a place he loved. Most of the early recordings of Hill Country blues musicians were made by musicologists who had heard stories of jukes bursting with sound way past typical closing hours and wanted to come down and see what all the fuss was about. Artists like Mississippi Fred McDowell managed to capitalize on some of those field recordings and land record deals and touring opportunities. But even modest commercial success was rare, and it often hit late in the lives and careers of the artists, who would fall ill or die shortly after becoming better known. McDowell’s first album was released in 1964, and he was dead by 1972.
When Fat Possum was formed and went looking for bluesmen who hadn’t been properly recorded for decades — like Kimbrough, Burnside and the sonically versatile Greenville player T-Model Ford, among others — it seemed like a correction of the record. The Hill Country and Delta blues mini-revival swept through the 1990s and held until the early 2000s, translating into record sales, documentaries, festivals and traveling juke-joint revues. This revival afforded a place for living legends to record and release music later in their lives. But it also rendered the question of the value of an American archive. Alongside Fat Possum’s recordings — which were embraced by listeners all over the country — is another archive that lives in the people who were there, from whatever the beginning was for them, hearing these songs and telling people about them. That archive is less glamorous but still valuable.
When Dan Auerbach was 17, he took a road trip to Mississippi with his father, in that moment in the ’90s when the blues scene was gaining more mainstream attention, in part because of the work of Fat Possum. They started in Akron, stopped in Nashville and then Memphis, where they got a small guidebook to Mississippi blues, and then they drove straight to the heart of Hill Country to see some of the players and the places that they’d only heard stories about. Auerbach went straight to Junior Kimbrough’s juke joint. Kimbrough was known for his live shows, which stretched long and got people dancing for hours (Fat Possum’s release of his 1992 album, “All Night Long,” took him to the national stage). But by the time Auerbach made his way to Mississippi, Kimbrough was at the end of his life. Kinney Kimbrough, Junior’s son, told Auerbach that Junior wouldn’t be by the club and wouldn’t be playing that night, which presented another issue entirely: Kinney’s brother played, but was locked up at the moment. He needed a loan to get him out. “He told my dad they’d pay him back once they sold some drinks that night,” Dan says. “It was like $24 or something.”Perhaps it was that the editors of the magazine at that time rarely seemed to put women on the cover, so the fact that it was these women said something. The article claimed, according to a poll, that 77 percent of Americans believed these women had “too much influence on young girls” — but weren’t these just young women? And then there was the male lens of it all, from the entertainment executives who molded them to the paparazzi who photographed them to the editors who put them on magazine covers.
More than a decade later, we are once again talking about those women — this time through a modern lens. After years of fans fighting to #FreeBritney from the conservatorship over which her father presides — and now with a popular new documentary on the subject — the rise and fall (and rise again?) of Britney Spears is being viewed with fresh eyes.
At the same time, a litany of other female celebrities of the ’90s and aughts are being — or perhaps ought to be — re-examined: Ms. Lohan, now out of the spotlight and living in Dubai, where for the first time in her life, she has said, she feels safe; Ms. Hilton, who in a 2020 documentary detailed emotional and physical abuse she suffered as a teenager; Janet Jackson, who was blacklisted after the 2004 Super Bowl “wardrobe malfunction” that left her breast exposed, while the man who exposed it, Justin Timberlake, went on to further fame (and was even invited back to perform at the halftime show in 2018).
Brandy, the singer and “Moesha” star, has described faking her marriage for fear that being an unwed mother would threaten her career. Anna Nicole Smith, the troubled actress and model, was labeled “white trash” while she was alive and “obtrusively voluptuous” in her obituary when she was dead. And then there’s Whitney Houston, whose marital problems and battle with drug addiction were broadcast to the world in an early-2000s Bravo series.
“I lived through Britney on television, and when she shaved her head, I remember thinking at the time, ‘Why is everybody acting like she’s OK? Like, how is this funny to people? How is this presented as entertainment?’” said Danyel Smith, the former editor in chief of Vibe magazine and the host of the podcast “Black Girl Songbook.”Increased transmissibility is an exponential threat. If a virus that could previously infect three people on average can now infect four, it looks like a small increase. Yet if you start with just two infected people in both scenarios, just 10 iterations later, the former will have caused about 40,000 cases while the latter will be more than 524,000, a nearly 13-fold difference.
Morally and practically, this emergency demands immediate action: widespread vaccination of those most vulnerable where the threat is greatest.
Waiving vaccine patents is fine, but unless it’s tied to a process that actually increases the supply of vaccines, it’s a little bit more than expressing thoughts and prayers after a tragedy. Officials from all nations that produce vaccines need to gather for an emergency meeting immediately to decide how to commandeer whatever excess capacity they have to produce more, through whatever means necessary. Because of the threat of increased transmissibility, and since the evidence at hand indicates that all of the vaccines, even the Chinese and Russian versions, appear to be highly effective against severe disease or worse, the focus should be on manufacturing and distributing the highest number of doses possible as fast as possible.
If the choice is between no vaccine and any vaccine, the precedence should go to whatever can be manufactured fastest, regardless of patents, nation of origin, or countries prioritizing their allies or wannabe allies.
Vaccine supplies need to be diverted now to where the crisis is the worst, if necessary away from the wealthy countries that have purchased most of the supply. It is, of course, understandable that every nation wants to vaccinate its own first, but a country with high levels of vaccination, especially among its more vulnerable populations, can hold things off, especially if they also had big outbreaks before. In addition, excess stockpiles can go where they are needed without even slowing down existing vaccination programs.
Right now, Covax, the global alliance for vaccine equity, does not have enough vaccines to distribute, and what supply it does get is allocated according to national population, not the seriousness of outbreaks. This needs to change. Our fire department needs more water, and should direct it to where the fire is burning, not to every house on the street.
The responses could vary. The elderly and health care workers could be prioritized wherever a crisis is worst. Dose-sparing strategies could be applied — delaying boosters has been successful in Britain and Canada when they faced surges. The details can be decided by the global health authorities.Then came an extraordinarily successful vaccination campaign. Deaths have plunged more than 85 percent and are still dropping. As fear recedes, the economy is surging, in what may end up being the fastest recovery ever. For example, restaurant bookings are already almost back to normal.
Why would anyone imagine us able to achieve that kind of sudden acceleration without leaving a few skid marks, and maybe even burning some rubber?
So yes, sawmill operators, who expected a longer slump, got caught short, leading to sky-high lumber prices. Rental car companies, which sold off a large part of their fleets last year, are now scrambling to buy vehicles again, helping to send used-car prices soaring. And so on.
What about those reports of labor shortages? Some of this is what always happens after a period of high unemployment: Businesses grow accustomed to having job applicants lined up at their doors, and get cranky when the buyers’ market ends. Small businesses surveyed in early 2015 reported a severe shortage of qualified workers; strange to say, the employment boom that began in 2010 still had another five years to run.
It is, let’s say, hard to shed tears over employers complaining about potential hires who ask, “How much do you pay?”
Still, there is some real evidence, like the number of job openings, that employers are having trouble hiring workers fast enough to meet soaring demand. And issues like child care are probably playing a role. There may also be a certain amount of “you can take this job and shove it” — some workers, especially those already close to retirement, may just not want to go back to the unpleasant, poorly paid work they had before.
Mainly, however, we’re just seeing the problems you’d expect when the economy tries to roar ahead from a standing start, which means that we’re calling on suppliers to ramp up production incredibly fast and expecting employers to quickly attract a large number of new workers. These problems are real, but they’ll mostly resolve themselves in a few months.That calculation starts with public health considerations. Exactly what part open schools play in spreading the virus is still unknown, but new research suggests that kids age 10 to 19 can transmit it at rates similar to adults. And with case numbers still rising in the United States, school reopenings in places like Denmark that have contained the virus aren’t fitting guides to what would lie ahead here if districts heeded Mr. Trump’s call to bring students back.
One way to mitigate concern is to enforce physical distancing rules, along with mandates for masks and strict hygiene. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has suggested schools keep students six feet apart where feasible, a caveat at the root of school leaders’ confusion. The American Academy of Pediatrics has suggested just three feet may be OK, especially with masks, citing the challenge of distancing in schools and the downsides of remote learning.
Skyrocketing cases in some parts of the country have rendered this conversation moot, with school districts and health departments deciding they cannot take the risk of opening school doors at all. But even if other districts decide they can open, superintendents have to take into account two other variables in addition to space: parents’ willingness to send their children to in-person school and teachers’ willingness to show up and teach them.
These considerations can be in direct tension. The more children who want to go to school, the more teachers needed to teach them. And both families and teachers are more likely to want to go if schools take more precautions, like promising six feet of separation. But the more precautions schools take, the fewer students they can welcome into each building. Even more complicated, preferences are likely to change multiple times throughout the year, as families and educators reassess the spread of the virus in their community and their personal risk tolerance.
Jason Kamras, the schools chief in Richmond, Va., recently likened the entire conundrum to “playing a game of 3-D chess while standing on one leg in the middle of a hurricane.”
“I have families emailing me that they are desperate for their kids to be back in school,” he said. “And also some families who, if their kids are not in school, they are going to lose their jobs and lose their homes. Then I have families emailing me, understandably, saying they have somebody at home who has a compromised immune system and they’re terrified to send their kids.” (Richmond schools are now set to start the school year online.)
Nationally, despite the looming child care challenge, a vast majority of parents remain skeptical of a return to in-person school. In a recent survey, nearly three-quarters of parents called going back into school buildings a “large to moderate” risk for their children, and the numbers were even higher for Black parents and Hispanic parents.This article is part of the Debatable newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Cryptocurrencies have been around for 12 years now, and for much of that time, they were a fairly easy subcultural fixation to ignore, like SantaCon or the Golden Globes. But in 2021 that became a lot harder to do: Last week the combined value of cryptocurrencies plummeted after six months of breakneck growth, wiping out $1.3 trillion in wealth — and causing the rest of the stock market to tumble with it.
“As the world of cryptocurrencies has exploded over the past year, so has its impact on actual companies and therefore financial markets,” The Times’s Matt Phillips wrote of the downturn. “Analysts at JPMorgan recently noted that the market value of cryptocurrencies, as a share of the economy, are larger than the total outstanding amount of subprime real estate debt before the financial crisis.”
Why have cryptocurrencies become so popular, and does their mainstreaming pose a threat to the broader economy? Here’s what people are saying.[MUSIC PLAYING]
jane coastin
Today on “The Argument,” is bipartisanship total bull [EXPLETIVE]? [MUSIC PLAYING]
archived recording I want to get a bipartisan deal on as much as we can get a bipartisan deal on. Just a couple of months ago, we were hearing from President Biden that he was going to unify the country and that we were going to work together and have bipartisanship. I’m still waiting, Mr. President. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Yeah, 100% of our focus is on stopping this new administration.
jane coaston
Mitch McConnell has made it pretty clear what Senate Republicans’ goal is over the next four years — block everything, whether it’s the new infrastructure bill Biden has proposed, immigration reform, or universal healthcare. But Biden and his administration continue to meet with Republicans to try and hash out deals. With his Memorial Day deadline looming, Biden has already knocked off $550 billion from his initial infrastructure bill. To many, he seems to be trying to make the kind of compromises that most Americans say they want to see in Congress and their bills. But do they? I’m Jane Coaston, and I think bipartisanship sounds nice in theory, but it’s increasingly impossible. I think the entire ethos of unity and working together relies on a very specific type of politics and a particular type of political party that we don’t have right now— or maybe we haven’t really ever had. And why should Biden have to focus on unity? It’s not like we expected Donald Trump to give as much as he took. My guests today disagree about whether Biden must compromise or if Democrats should go it alone. Biden may have less than two years to get a lot done. Is there time for bipartisanship? Jason Grumet is founder and president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, a think tank in Washington, D.C. Aaron Belkin is director of Take Back the Court, an advocacy group working to expand the Supreme Court. They’ve also been arguing for decades — first, as debate partners in college and now as heads of organizations with missions that are sometimes in direct opposition. First and foremost, I know you two have been debate partners for years. Have you debated the merits of compromise and bipartisanship before?
aaron belkin
That’s all we do.
jason grumet
So Aaron and I in college were debate partners. And we had actually the glorious experience of debating against all manner of other people. I think this is the first time we’ve actually ever had a chance to debate with each other, which is what’s got us so fun about.
jane coaston
Ooh.
aaron belkin
Although our conversations involve a lot of kind of harder disagreements and interruptions, so at an internal level, yeah, it is true.
jane coaston
Perfect. So Jason, convince me I should want bipartisanship. Because over the past couple of years, what I’ve learned is that bipartisanship means nothing happens.
jason grumet
All right, I’m here to make the sale, but I’m game. Big picture, it is an imperfect exercise. But what makes the United States of America fundamentally different than all other countries is this idea of, out of many, one, right? America is this incredible diversity of perspectives. And what has made our country, I believe, truly unique is the commitment that we have struggled with to blend these various perspectives into one set of coherent national views. And without pretending for a moment that that has ever been a graceful or perfect experience, it has fundamentally created stronger and far more durable policy in this country than in any kind of parliamentary system. I really believe that if we give up on this fundamental premise that our political system requires the folks who have a little bit more power than the others to step back and actually try to collaborate, I think we’re giving up on something much greater than infrastructure or even climate legislation. I think we are actually abandoning the core idea that differentiates this country from other nations in the world. And we would regret it for centuries.
jane coaston
But a lot of other countries do versions of bipartisanship. Germany has grand bargains every 15 seconds, mixed member proportional parliamentary systems, basically put parties together in a bag and then shake them up and then you get policy. What’s the difference between that type of system and what you’re talking about?
jason grumet
Well, so Jane, just as an outset, the like, hey, let’s be more like Europe, never really been an appealing idea to the American democracy. So look, there’s lots of different ways that we could rewrite the Constitution if we were starting today, right? It’s easy to say, wouldn’t it be lovely if Democrats and Republicans could go off by themselves and write all the rules? That’s just not an option. And so, if the premise is, let’s have a Constitutional Convention, I got to tell you, I’d actually stick with the one we had a couple hundred years ago than what I imagine folks would write if they had a chance today.
jane coaston
Aaron, what do you think?
aaron belkin
I think that if we weren’t in a moment of normal politics that it would make sense to talk about bipartisan solutions and bipartisan compromises and policy durability. But we are not in a moment of normal politics. And the very idea of bipartisan shrouds that problem and cloaks the key threat to democracy and obscures that the GOP elected officials who were trying to reach bipartisan compromises with are trapped by a triangular alliance of the Koch network and Fox News and 74 million resentment voters. And that if you want to talk about policy durability, I mean, we have a lot of very retrograde, terrible policies and lack of policy in this country that is quite durable, even though Republicans and Democrats on the street want those policies. So sure, bipartisanship is something we should strive for in theory, and on paper, it looks good. But in this moment, bipartisanship is a fantasy that prevents us from rescuing democracy and from putting in place bold policies that we need to address emergencies like climate.
jason grumet
So that’s good stuff. I got to tell you, that’s an idea. And there’s some compelling stuff there. And I fundamentally do agree that we have to think seriously about our election laws and whether, in fact, Congress is, in fact, having the incentives to represent effectively the interest of the people. However, the last four years were terrible for democracy. But the idea that we should let four years of one president kind of break our democracy and give up on it, again, is kind of shortsighted. So first of all, it’s working better than you might think. I know that the common narrative is that Congress is getting nothing done. And we should talk about that a little bit. They passed a $35 billion water infrastructure bill, 89 to 2, legislation that’s going to help places like Flint, Michigan get the lead out of their pipes. They’re moving forward on the January 6 commission, which is a terribly difficult thing for the Republican Party. So I’m not saying it’s good. And I’m not saying that this is a normal moment. But it’s not as broken as people want to claim. And ultimately, I think it is extremely shortsighted to imagine that because one party has a little bit of majority now, it’s going to have a little bit of majority for a while.
jane coaston
Aaron, I want to go back to something quickly because I know you want to respond there. But you said that bipartisanship was appropriate for a time of normal politics, but this isn’t that moment. When did we have normal politics? I was born in 1987. I have never known normal politics or whatever normalcy would look like. I remember Newt Gingrich screaming about the contract with America and shutting down the government in ‘95. So it seems to me that we keep thinking about this halcyon time of normalcy. But has there ever really been one?
aaron belkin
No, I wouldn’t talk about a halcyon time of normalcy. But what I would say is that the Republican Party in this moment is one of the greatest threats to, I would say, the survival of civilization because of their refusal to acknowledge climate catastrophe. And the Republican Party now is so radical. And the idea of bipartisanship in this moment cloaks that threat. We just had an attempted coup launched by a president of the United States, and 147 members of Congress voted to overturn election results. What that tells us is that the Republicans are very, very close to driving democracy into a ditch.
jane coaston
Part of this seems to be that if they think Democrats are insane and we think Republicans are insane, or you do, is that getting in the way here? How do we think about this?
jason grumet
We are in a moment where the two parties have real enmity for each other. And ideas about socialists and fascists and Nazis are now being bandied about as if it’s kind of part of a casual conversation. And it turns out that it’s about perspective. And if we allow one party to so vilify the other party and take all of the safety guards out of the system, beware, right? I mean, imagine what the Republican Party could have done 20 years ago, had they had a majority when the contract with America was passed. I mean, do you remember that legislation? It basically put incredible restrictions on the right to choose. It said that families that were already on welfare couldn’t get any more money if they had more kids. It was a set of activities which all polled over 60%, according to the Republicans. They came into office, and they did not have unified control. And they were not able to pass all those measures. And if you look back under the Trump administration, there were things that were filibustered by Democrats. Now under the Obama administration, there were a lot of things that you and Aaron would probably love, many of which I do, too, which were filibustered by Republicans. But the point is, at this moment, when there is so much hostility, this is the absolute worst time to take all of the controls out of the system. Because guess what? Every time a party wins the presidency, they claim they have a mandate. They never do, ever. We switch parties back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. And the inability to imagine the bad things that could happen is really remarkable to me.
aaron belkin
So Jason is confusing polarization for asymmetric polarization. Like, yeah, both of the parties say bad things about each other. But the problem is that the Republican Party is no longer a conservative party. It’s a party whose ideology is pseudo populism. It’s a party whose purpose is injuring scapegoats. And when an entire party is committed to injuring scapegoats, you can’t compromise with that party. The only way to fix the system is to unrig the system, to make sure that there’s an incentive for the Republicans to stop trying to just juice their base, but to pursue a median voter theorem. And what that would mean would be getting rid of voter suppression, getting rid of gerrymandering, getting rid of dark money. And unfortunately, the Republicans will not be part of that unrigging, so the Democrats have to unrig the system.
jane coaston
Well, because I also think the point currently of the Republican Party — and I’m trying to put this in the most objective way — Mitch McConnell’s entire objective is to stymie this administration. That is the point. They don’t want to make government work. So Jason, what does that leave us here? Because if Republicans just want to — they’ve said outright, we want to obstruct Joe Biden. Why should Joe Biden say, let me work with you and not just use the energy of like, you voted for me because you hated this other guy. Let’s give the voters what they want.
jason grumet
So, look, I founded and run an organization called the Bipartisan Policy Center. So being ganged up on is not unusual for me. But I will tell you that you are both bringing this tautological premise to the debate. One way or another, Aaron has said, all Republicans are fundamentally just interested in the destruction of democracy. You have just said essentially all Republicans are solely interested in obstructing Joe Biden. And it’s just not true. Some are, and some Democrats are, too. And I’m not suggesting perfect symmetry. But it is a self-fulfilling prophecy to assert that the other side is so venal that therefore we just have to break the system and go our own way. And it is irresponsible to not take any responsibility in this dynamic for why the Republicans are acting the way they do. Democracy is a team sport. Democrats have loved bipartisanship in the days when Democrats had total control of government. We love talking about the New Deal. Well, guess what? When FDR took office, he had a real mandate. When the country has a real mandate, it should act like it. When you have the tiniest sliver, a 50-50 Senate, the tiniest sliver of control, and you act like you, in fact, now should ignore the other party, you’ve just given up. I mean, it’s just not the country that we all believe we have if, in fact, we’re simply going to say, if you have one more vote in the Senate, everyone, get out of the way.
jane coaston
What is better about a bill that passes with one Republican? And I keep thinking about the pieces of bipartisan legislation that have passed in my lifetime, and some of them have been hot trash. If you get both parties on board, that does not guarantee that things are good.
jason grumet
It creates the best and the worst legislation. No question about it, right? You either have principled legislation where people are coming together to get stuff done, or you have the crazies from both parties meeting around the backside of the moon. Both things are possible. But the two reasons why it matters is that the process of having to have your notions challenged by people who disagree with you tends to lead to better outcome. And more important, we implement rules and laws better when there’s a little bit of buy-in on both sides.
aaron belkin
No. [LAUGHTER] I just don’t know where to begin. Our institutions are distorted now. You have a Senate that’s divided 51-50, even though Democratic senators represent 41 million more people than Republican senators. And so we have a system in which the institutions are clogged by —
jason grumet
It’s called the Constitution with the U.S. Senate. I mean, it might be inconvenient, but it’s what we got.
aaron belkin
Well, it’s clogged you could also say by a generation of hyper partisan gerrymandering of voter suppression and of dark money flooding into it.
jason grumet
Aaron, there’s no districts in the Senate. There’s no gerrymandering in the US Senate. You cannot gerrymander a state. It might be inconvenient because it is not majoritarian, but it was the basic premise of the place, right? And you remember the grand compromise, right?
aaron belkin
I said it was not just hyper partisan gerrymandering, but it was also dark money, which has had an impact on the Senate. But look, we have a system in which it’s too hard to pass a law. And if you look at the social science, literature, and also European countries that Jason says we don’t want to imitate, they have better policy solutions to almost every problem that we’re trying to deal with. And they have fewer veto points than we have. And so, we have four veto points that laws have to get by in order to become the law of the land. And each of our veto points is subject to minority capture, which means that as the Republicans represent an ever shrinking percentage of white people, they get to rule only through minority rule. Yeah, it would make sense to look for bipartisan compromises if the politicians in Washington represented the people of this country. But the institutions are so distorted that you have one party that is effectively trying to burn the house down, while the other party is trying to solve the country’s problems.
jane coaston
But I mean, I just keep thinking about examples of time and time again of which we’ve seen legislation that, in my view, should not have passed or moved too quickly with FASTA or CESTA or any host of legislation that I think violated the civil liberties of individuals and minorities. I think it should be pretty hard to pass a law.
aaron belkin
It makes sense to be able to deliberate before you pass a law, but it’s too sticky in the United States. President Obama took a year to take Republican input and then couldn’t get any Republicans to buy into a Republican healthcare plan that Mitt Romney had designed.
jason grumet
And it was a better law because of it, and they ultimately did fall back on a one party vote. I want to talk what ifs, right? I mean, I think that we obviously, if we’re going to — if we’re talking seriously, not just having a philosophical conversation about political — if we’re seriously talking about changing the democracy, we have to talk about what ifs. And we don’t have to go back as far as the contract for America. If you talk to the progressive community, the group was pretty careful about getting on board this, let’s do it our way, is the pro-choice community. Because they rightfully realize that had it not been for the filibuster as recently as 18 months ago, abortion would be even more restrictive than it is today. There was a bill that passed with 51 votes in the US Senate called the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which would have made it illegal under almost every circumstance for a woman to have an abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy. But for the rules we have in place, that would be law today. So just imagine that we, in fact, took all the guardrails off, and just imagine, as has happened every single four years, we switch political parties, think about what you’re setting yourself up for. When Harry Reid and the Democrats blew up the filibuster on judges in 2013, I assure you, they did not imagine that Donald Trump would be elected president, that you’d have a Republican majority, that he’d confirm three Supreme Court judges. And that’s because you can’t imagine —
aaron belkin
If Harry Reid had not eliminated the filibuster for executive appointments in lower court judges, then Donald Trump would have inherited 200 lower court openings, instead of 100 lower court openings. The reason that he had to get rid of the filibuster in 2013 was that the Republicans were not allowing President Obama to seat lower court judges. And so, there was no other options. Jason says, if we change democracy, then these terrible things would happen. We’ve already changed democracy. We’ve changed democracy when we banned Black and Brown voters — oh, and by the way, white voters — from the polls. So democracy is changing all the time. Getting rid of the filibuster does not mean, quote unquote, “getting rid of all of the guardrails.” To become a law, a bill would still have to pass through the House and the Senate and the White House and survive judicial review. It would just mean that it would be a little bit less difficult to pass a law. [MUSIC PLAYING]
archived recording Hi, this is Mike from Wilmington, Delaware. And the thing that we have been having argument about is two terms for the president. And it seems like the incentives are too perverse for people to run for re-election. And it really should just be one six-year term. And then the person could run again following a six-year hiatus. That’s my argument.
jane coaston
What are you arguing about with your family, your friends, your frenemies? Tell me about the big debate you’re having in a voicemail by calling 347-915-4324, and we might play an excerpt of it on a future episode. [MUSIC PLAYING] Aaron, when people say that oh, we want the Republicans to hold the Senate before the Georgia special elections, we want bipartisanship, what are they saying?
aaron belkin
Yeah, I think they’re saying that they don’t want extremists to take over the government. And I think they’re saying that they want politicians in Washington to work together to solve problems. And people are complex, and public opinion is complex. And so that desire for cooperation at an optical or performative or even substantive level sit side by side by an actual desire that actual politicians solve actual problems. And as we all know, the public is not getting that from Washington. And so, there is a contradiction in terms of wanting cooperation, but also wanting the solutions that the bipartisan fantasy prevents us from obtaining.
jason grumet
Look, I think we see that all the time. You know, we see that there are polls which say the public loves the American Rescue Plan. 70%, 65% of the public, and so that will have Aaron say, well, look, of course, this shows you that you can have bipartisan support for a partisan agenda. I would say that people like free stuff. There’s also, though, polls that show that 2 to 1, Americans want Biden to make major changes to his proposals to win Republican support. So there’s just a fundamental contradiction, which I suggest means we shouldn’t govern by polling. I think the other point, though, that we sometimes lose a little bit is the question of what the party in power’s role is in collaboration. Because it’s pretty easy to say, oh, look at those terrible Republicans. But just look at this moment right now on infrastructure legislation, right? It’s a big deal, right? The president proposed a $2 trillion plan. The Senate Republicans have an $800 billion plan. And so the question is, should they negotiate or not? That’s probably the most significant, can democracy work, moment we’re looking at. So think about yourself as a Republican. You’re trying to figure out do you negotiate with President Biden? And at the same time, the Democrats are saying, oh, and then we’re going to do reconciliation. What motivation is there right now for Republicans to really strain to negotiate for a trillion dollar piece of legislation that has climate change protections and broadband? What’s the motivation for them to do that if what they’re being told is as soon as they do that, then the White House is just going to go back in with one party, do everything they would have wanted to do anyways?
aaron belkin
I think we’re missing the big picture. Yeah, we can try to collaborate with Republicans to pass an infrastructure bill. Maybe we can pick off a few Republicans and get that collaboration. I mean, we can waste a lot of time trying to get that. But that’s not what this moment is about. When historians look back at this moment, they’re going to ask, why were we so blind to the likelihood that democracy is about to end? And they’re going to ask why people like Jason were focused on the micro nuances of what some member of Congress wants, when the action on the Republican side is not about the GOP? It’s about the politics of scapegoating. It’s about 74 million Trump voters who like to inflict pain. The Trump voters are not trying to solve problems. The Trump voters and the Koch network and Fox —
jason grumet
That’s where I got to interrupt you. It’s offensive to 74 million people. The assertion that all the Republicans want to do is obstruct President Biden, it’s just not true. I mean, it’s easy to come up with these caricatures of the other side and then say, oh, look how bad they are. Let’s get rid of the system. When Tocqueville was studying the US, he made one point that I thought was very important. And what he said was that one of the unique things about America is not that we are more righteous or more evolved, but we have a unique ability to make what he calls repairable mistakes, that there was kind of a superpower ballast in the American constitutional system that allowed us, as we were going towards the edge in one way or another, to kind of pull that structure back to center. Most members of Congress, Republican and Democrats, are good people with bad incentives. And I think we can do things to change those incentives that will make the democracy, again, start to function better for the American people.
jane coaston
So if you’ve convinced me that bipartisanship has some merit, that thinking like this has some merit, what does that mean that Biden should do now, Jason?
jason grumet
So I think at this very moment, there’s a lot riding on infrastructure legislation, right? So President Biden came in. He had said he was going to move forward emergency relief under Covid. We were still under the metaphor of emergency. Despite the fact that we passed bipartisan law under Trump three times for emergency relief, I think President Biden was like, I’m just going to get this done. And they put forward the $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan. It was done in a partisan fashion. OK, I get it, right? I’m not saying every single thing has to be bipartisan all the time. There was a moment there where there was a justification. But now we’re talking about public policy. We’re talking about investing taxpayer money in 5 and 10-year policy changes. I think the administration needs to make it clear that it’s not just going to do a head fake, that it is truly going to try to pass this bill through the regular process. Democracy is a momentum game. If you get infrastructure legislation passed, well, there’s a lot of pieces in CARES Plan that has bipartisan support. There’s been a strong history of bipartisan support for paid leave, a strong history of bipartisan support for investing in childcare. In the last tax bill that I think most people felt was not a particularly bipartisan piece of legislation, there were significant increases in child tax credit that Marco Rubio brought forward. And I mean, we can go through a lot of different— I mean, there’s room on climate change. We’re going to be investing in significant clean energy solutions. There’s a lot of public policy that this country could make. And maybe we’ll fail. But I think it’d be a huge mistake not to actually make a serious effort to succeed.
aaron belkin
This makes me really sad because the one thing that Joe Biden and the Democrats don’t have is time. And the Republicans are trying to run out the clock. I mean, Jason remembers full well when Lindsey Graham dragged the White House along for a year. He was going to be the one Republican vote on climate change. And then, at the end, he pulled out after they wasted a year trying to get a climate change bill. And the Obama administration couldn’t pass it. Sure, you can occasionally pick off a Republican to support Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell repeal. You can occasionally pick off a Republican here and there to support things on the margins. And those are not unimportant. And of course, Joe Biden should make a heartfelt effort to get Republican support for the legislation he cares about. But they will run out the clock if he gives them a time to do that. And meanwhile, the fantasy of bipartisanship is allowing moderates like Kyrsten Sinema and Joe Manchin to cover themselves under the guise of bipartisanship while they’re blocking structural reform and bold policy solutions that the public would support, that Republicans will never allow to become law, and that the country desperately needs. There was no climate change clock when Tocqueville was writing. We don’t have time to impose the policies that we need to solve these problems.
jason grumet
Aaron just told you that there would be climate change legislation unless Lindsey Graham bailed out. It’s not true. They did not put a good bill together. They never had more than 42 votes. They were never close to passing climate change legislation. But in this narrative of our side versus your side, what gets remembered after the fact is kind of a self reinforcing narrative of, we would have got it done if it wasn’t for Republicans. It’s not true. John Kerry drove that bill into the ditch all by himself. There was nobody there to help him. Lindsey Graham did not make a difference.
jane coaston
Aaron, you were talking about Trump voters, but I think it’s worth noting that there were millions of people in Florida and elsewhere who voted for Trump at the top of the ticket, but they also voted to raise the minimum wage and to legalize medical marijuana. Voters are heterodox. Is there some way of merging the middle here to make this work for those voters? You are shaking your head, and that makes me sad.
aaron belkin
If you were willing to give up on civil rights and to give up on the politics of scapegoating. I mean, the reason we had a New Deal coalition was because Roosevelt was willing to turn a blind eye to apartheid in the South. And so if you want to get white people to buy into a progressive agenda, you have to give up on civil rights, in other words.
jason grumet
So look, let me just say that America is better than the last 4 and 1/2 years. But I don’t think many people would have believed in 2006, that we were going to elect Barack Obama to be president. And I’m not saying that that was the end of racism as we know it. But we as a country are remarkably complicated. Leaders matter. We had an extremely divisive, incredibly painful experience for this country that revealed that there’s a tremendous amount of work left to do. And yes, I think that there is a next leader who can move past the kind of virulent us against them scapegoating that we saw over the last four years. And I want the democracy to have a chance to elect that person. I think that if we go this route of basically saying Democrats are going to just run the table for two years and then we’re going to let Republicans run the table for two years, we will have lost that possibility.
aaron belkin
You’re not going to be able to become president as a Republican unless you buy into the big lie. And the incentives are pushing Republicans in a more and more extreme direction every day.
jason grumet
I think it’s about degree, right? I think Aaron is absolutely right that there are changes that we can make to our democracy which strengthen and improve it, but don’t take away that fundamental obligation for the majority to work with the minority.
jane coaston
On that note, thank you both so much. Jason Grumet is the founder and president of the Bipartisan Policy Center. And Aaron Belkin is the director of Take Back the Court and a professor of political science at San Francisco State University. Again, thank you.
aaron belkin
Thank you.
jason grumet
And my best friend.
aaron belkin
And mine, too.
jane coastin
Aw.
aaron belkin
But he’s wrong about all this stuff.
jason grumet
Everything, yeah, that’s right.
jane coastonLord knows, I sympathize with President Biden’s desire to avoid getting dragged into mediating the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. But the 11 days of fighting between Israel and Hamas made something crystal clear to me: Unless we preserve at least the potential of a two-state solution, the one-state reality that would emerge in its place won’t just blow up Israel, the West Bank and Gaza; it could very well blow up the Democratic Party and every Jewish organization and synagogue in America.
Yes, that’s what I learned last week.
I don’t expect Biden to summon Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to Camp David. As long as both are in power, no serious compromise is possible. But it is vital that Biden urgently take steps to re-energize the possibility of a two-state solution and give it at least some concrete diplomatic manifestation on the ground.
Because without that horizon — without any viable hope of separating Israelis and Palestinians into two states for two peoples — the only outcome left will be one state in which the Israeli majority dominates and Palestinians in East Jerusalem and the West Bank will be systematically deprived of equal rights so that Israel can preserve its Jewish character.
If that happens, the charge that Israel has become an apartheid-like entity will resonate and gain traction far and wide. The Democratic Party will be fractured. A rising chorus of progressives — who increasingly portray the Israeli army’s treatment of Palestinians as equivalent to the Minneapolis Police Department’s treatment of Black people or to the treatment by colonial powers of Indigenous peoples — will insist on distancing the United States from Israel and, maybe, even lead to bans on arms sales.So Lanham funds were used to build and maintain physical child-care centers, pay and train the teachers inside them, and cover operating expenses for a new national network of affordable, quality child-care centers that were open to all, not just Rosies in factories. The women who enrolled their children in these centers weren’t just freed up to work during the war. The experience of accessible care that allowed them to seek employment left them more likely to work years after the centers closed.
If child care is infrastructure, then, it should be nearly self-evident that care for the elderly and disabled is, too. Children aren’t the only members of our families who require daily care. But we offer miserly support for those who need to secure and pay for it. Medicare doesn’t cover nursing home or assisted living stays; only Medicaid does, requiring families with resources to spend them down before they can get assistance with the exorbitant cost. Medicare also doesn’t cover in-home care, and not all state Medicaid programs cover it. Some of those that do cap the number of people who can get help, leaving people to languish on waiting lists for years.
So many family members simply have to care for disabled children or siblings, or aging parents or spouses, by themselves. Those who care for their spouses or parents are much less likely to work. The ones who try to hold on to a career miss more than a week of work each year, on average, thanks to these additional responsibilities.
Paid leave might seem like a counterintuitive plank in an infrastructure package, given that it helps people stay away from work. But it does so when we are at our most vulnerable — when a new child arrives who demands constant feeding and attention, after a serious injury that leaves someone unable to work for long periods, or when a loved one lands in the hospital. Without paid leave, these events often explode people’s lives into unrecognizable bits, including their bond to their jobs.
Paid leave keeps that bond sealed. Studies in California, the first state with its own paid family leave system, have found that those who use paid leave are more likely to return to their jobs when their time off is over. Paid leave helps mothers in particular stay connected to their jobs before and after the arrival of a new child. On top of that, an analysis of 41 companies found that after they offered paid leave, the majority had an increase in revenue and profit per employee — in other words, it allowed workers to perform better.
The peace of mind that comes from knowing we can take time off without endangering our jobs or our livelihoods if life-changing emergencies arise allows us to devote ourselves to getting our work done. Yet the United States has fallen behind other countries in the share of women in the work force, not just because of a lack of child-care investment, but also because of a refusal to guarantee paid leave for all.
That elder care, care for the disabled, child care and paid leave enable the functioning of our economy is not the only reason the country should invest in them. Paid family leave improves child and parental health, which also lead to a better-functioning country and society. High-quality child-care facilitates children’s development. Disabled and elderly Americans deserve to live their lives with dignity.Cross-examination of Mr. Weinstein accusers sought to tap into what were likely deep-seated suspicions held by some jurors of women who report sexual assault. It is no surprise that age-old tactics were used to discredit the witnesses. At times, they were portrayed as lying for fortune or fame. They were blamed for putting themselves in a vulnerable situation. They were presented as vengeful women who regretted having consensual sex. Now the question is how long those familiar tropes will retain their power in an era when accusers stand a chance, however remote, of being believed.
Throughout the trial and the jury’s deliberations, many supporters of the #MeToo movement felt a sense of urgency. If Mr. Weinstein was not held to account, they wondered, what hope was there for ordinary survivors of sexual violence seeking criminal justice?
Over the past six months, as I researched a book on credibility, I spent many hours talking with victims of sexual harassment and assault. Our conversations often turned to the meaning of accountability.
Some survivors told me they wanted nothing to do with the criminal justice system. For others, protecting possible future victims was a main reason to turn to the courts. Still others saw a criminal conviction as recognition of the harm they suffered and that it matters. For these survivors and countless others, Mr. Weinstein’s conviction is cause for hope.
To be sure, #MeToo aims to accomplish much more than sending the worst offenders to prison. The movement’s reach is ambitious — it demands that we transform our culture of male sexual entitlement and the misconduct it begets. But legal accountability is part of this evolution.
This shift may also require reforming our sexual assault laws, which continue to fixate on physical force rather than on the absence of consent. In the case of Ms. Haley, the jury believed her testimony that he forced oral sex on her, and conviction for this first-degree criminal sex act carries a maximum penalty of 25 years. But the conviction in the third-degree rape case of Ms. Mann did not require proof of force and carries a maximum penalty of only four years. What the law fails to recognize is another dynamic at work: coercion. The Weinstein accusers described him controlling their professional and personal lives in ways that were not mainly physical. But the law of sexual assault does little to account for that kind of power.
The Weinstein convictions show us that real progress is underway. But the system still mostly fails survivors. Women who are poor, of color, who come forward alone — especially these women — will continue to be disbelieved and blamed. Even women whose cases never make the headlines deserve more than an elusive promise of criminal justice.
Longstanding biases against accusers will not disappear overnight; not even an extraordinary conviction can remake the world. But the Weinstein verdicts indicate that we are beginning to correct course.
Deborah Tuerkheimer is a professor at Northwestern’s Pritzker School of Law and a former assistant Manhattan district attorney.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.The Capitol Crawl, it came to be called. In March 1990, several dozen activists, cheered on by supporters, left their canes and wheelchairs and pulled themselves up the steep stone steps of the United States Capitol.
They wanted to pressure Congress into ratifying the Americans With Disabilities Act. At the heart of what became a landmark of civil rights legislation was the elemental role of architecture and design — literally building accessibility into cities, products, public spaces and workplaces, without which equity would remain just talk. Business leaders predicted doomsday costs if the A.D.A. passed. The New York Times even published an editorial titled “Blank Check for the Disabled?”
Thirty years on, the A.D.A. has reshaped American architecture and the way designers and the public have come to think about civil rights and the built world. We take for granted the ubiquity of entry ramps, Braille signage, push buttons at front doors, lever handles in lieu of doorknobs, widened public toilets, and warning tiles on street corners and subway platforms. New courthouses, schools and museums no longer default to a flight of stairs out front to express their elevated ideals. The A.D.A. has baked a more egalitarian aesthetic of forms and spaces into the civic DNA.
But there’s still a long way to go.
Last fall, the 22,000-square-foot, $41.5 million Hunters Point branch library opened in Queens, N.Y. With a soaring interior of vertiginous tiers and zigzagging stairs, the project’s architectural ambition was obvious and outsized. My review called it one of the most uplifting public buildings New York had produced in years.For years, my mother has expressed the wish to come live with me. That’s unrealistic, I have told her. She does not speak the language and has no friends in America. I’m a junior academic, my work is unstable, the hours are long. None of this matters, my mother has said: As long as she’s with me, she’ll be content. She will cook and clean for me. She has her savings and her pension. She will not be a burden. She only wants to help. This is her attempt at unconditional love: Anything that I am and you have use for is yours.
But a mother is not a maid, I have tried to explain. Emotional dependence is unhealthy. Please, develop a hobby. Please, live for yourself. I know my mother hears my suggestions as the ultimate rejection — that she should find her own life because it is no longer a part of mine.
For the better part of a year, my mother has been paying uncharacteristically close attention to world affairs, not so much out of newly found interest, but as another attempt to connect with me and correct my wrong-think. I have been writing regularly on Chinese politics and society for English-language publications, often criticizing the government’s abuses. Knowing how it pressures its critics and their relatives, I have never mentioned my articles to my mother: She cannot read them anyway; the language barrier, as well as our physical distance, should be her protection.
Yet somehow she has found out. My seditious writing has created a giant negative space between us. We do not speak about it explicitly. But my mother brings up the topics I write about and presses on with her views, always aligned with the government’s. I push back. Each time I poke holes in her arguments and challenge her value system, a part of me craves that if I rub her senses close enough, there will be a new kindling.
I miss our old fights, not for the wounds they inflicted, but for the woman I remember and am afraid of losing, the indomitable force who never settled. I see my mother’s submissiveness today as foreboding decay, like a rock that loses its edges before crumbling to gravel.
“You are a good child with a strong sense of justice,” my mother writes when I tell her that I worry about the old, the poor and the disabled in Wuhan under lockdown. Then she attributes my grievances about state oppression to the oppressive ways she raised me, and writes that my political disobedience is little more than a child’s rebellion against a parent.
I am irritated by her suggestion. “It is not always about you!” I type. I look at the words, followed by the flashing cursor, on the screen and flinch at their cruelty. I hit “send” anyway.Men menstruate. Some have even given birth. Women with penises and prominent larynxes walk the streets and use the ladies’ restroom. Nonbinary people wear binders and use they/them pronouns. It’s 2020.
The Trump administration would like to turn back the clock. This month, the administration finalized a rule that would erase nondiscrimination protections for trans people in the provision of health care. The administration’s mode of attack is linguistic. Trans people live in the space between “gender” and “sex,” and the new rule aims to erase us by conflating the concepts.
A full embrace of this new trans reality will mean leaving behind old vocabularies. Some changes are simple: We can speak of trans mothers and brothers and siblings as easily as of any other family member. Others are more contested. “They” as a singular pronoun is not without its detractors, Shakespeare aside. And some words will need to be reconfigured entirely. The “feminine products” aisle offers tampons and pads and diva cups — tools for managing the biological function of menstruation. Again, some men menstruate. So why not simply call these menstrual products?
“Sex” is a biological framework, a panoply of possibility on its own. “Sex” needs precise words like “male” and “female” and “intersex” to describe the origins, components and functions of bodies. But we can’t maintain this precision if we use words about sex to describe gender — the social and political roles and possibilities we take on as women, as men, as something else or none of the above.This article is a wonky edition of Paul Krugman’s free newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it.
Cryptocurrency was supposed to replace government-issued fiat currency in our daily lives. It hasn’t. But one thing I’m still hearing from the faithful is that Bitcoin, or Ethereum, or maybe some crypto asset introduced by the Chinese, will soon replace the dollar as the global currency of choice.
That’s also very unlikely to happen, since it’s very hard for a currency to function as global money unless it functions as ordinary money first. But still, it’s definitely conceivable that one of these days something will displace the dollar from its current dominance. I used to think the euro might be a contender, although Europe’s troubles now make that seem like a distant prospect. Still, nothing monetary is forever.
But does it matter? My old teacher Charles Kindleberger used to say that anyone who spends too much time thinking about international money goes a little mad. What he meant, I think, was that something like the dollar’s dominance sounds as if it must be very important — a pillar of America’s power in the world. So it’s very hard for people — especially people who aren’t specialists in the field — to wrap their minds around the reality that it’s a fairly trivial issue.Picture books are the carrot that motivates the emerging reader, frustrated and bored silly by the phonemic progression from cat to mat. Unlike most “early readers,” picture books are vibrant and appealing in a way likely to give children who grow up swiping iPads the stimulation they’ve come to expect. Picture books also offer much more sophisticated language and storytelling, the assumption being that adults are reading those words aloud, so children needn’t struggle over them themselves.
All this sounds like a lot of work and homework, so let’s be clear: Picture books are also one of the literary world’s great pleasures.
When I say kids shouldn’t outgrow picture books, I mean ever. According to a 2019 Scholastic survey, whereas 55 percent of kids ages 6 to 8 are frequent readers, only 11 percent remain so by the time they’re between 15 and 17. At a time when we lament the state of children’s literacy, particularly reading for pleasure, surely we shouldn’t tell kids to move on from books they enjoy.
Publishers realize this. Aware of the tough competition for attention from video games and the internet, publishing companies have pushed picture books in new directions. Biographies for children, once a staid genre, are now packed with photos and illustrations. Visual encyclopedias, fact books, massive books about space are as stimulating as any app. These are picture books, too, but often explicitly for children ages 6 to 12.
Think about the explosive popularity of graphic novels — books like “Guts” and series like “Dog Man” and the “March” trilogy — and how they’ve transformed children who didn’t read at all into ones who do, and those readers into voracious readers. What are children telling us but that they want to keep looking at pictures? That they are visual readers as much as they are readers of text? And that perhaps we shouldn’t be so quick to steer them away from books that respect children’s interests and the way their minds work. These, too, are “real” books.
I still read picture books, and if you’re honest with yourself, in all likelihood, so do you. What are all those manga and graphic novels and pricey coffee-table books and online comics we’re all staring at — not to mention Instagram stories and TikTok videos — if not, in essence, picture books for grown-ups? Stories with pictures.Although the trial came to a conclusion on Monday, its true climax was late last week, when Gonzalez Rogers — who is not expected to render her verdict for months, peppered Cook with a series of pointed queries about Apple’s golden-goose business model.
Apple has long maintained that it wants to empower users with control over their digital lives. So if it cares so deeply about users’ agency, the judge asked Cook, why not allow people to have a choice in how they pay for digital goods?
The question seemed to catch the C.E.O. off guard, and he answered with unusual frankness. If Apple allowed app developers to link to alternative payment methods, he said, “we would in essence give up our total return on our” intellectual property. Apple spends a lot of money building and maintaining the App Store, Cook said, and it’s also giving app developers access to a lot of customers. That’s worth the 30 percent cut, he suggested.
The judge kept pushing. Even if Apple brings iPhone users to Epic’s yard, after that first interaction, isn’t Apple effectively just collecting an ongoing profit by virtue of its position as a middleman?
Here’s where things get tricky. Apple argues that it isn’t really a restrictive monopolist because Fortnite can be downloaded on lots of different systems — Android phones, video game consoles and personal computers. Some of those platforms also charge developers a cut of purchases. For instance, gaming systems like Microsoft’s Xbox and Sony’s PlayStation take a 30 percent cut on purchases of digital games, though unlike Apple, they tend to sell their hardware at a loss. Apple makes a hefty profit on its hardware and in recent years has even raised its prices. In some ways, the problem with Apple’s App Store rules isn’t that they’re uniquely onerous; it’s that the store is so huge, its harms are more widespread. The App Store’s revenue in 2020 was $72 billion, according to Sensor Tower, an app analytics firm, nearly twice that of Google’s app store.
Gonzalez Rogers also pointed out the various ways Apple seems inured to competition. It has maintained the 30 percent fee almost unchanged since the App Store’s launch in 2008. Only late last year did it offer a price break for small-time developers. But “that really wasn’t the result of competition,” the judge said. “That seemed to be a result of the pressure that you’re feeling from investigations, from lawsuits — not competition.”
Other evidence in the case underlined the thesis that Apple acts with impunity in the app market, as if it has little to fear from competitors. In 2018, when Netflix was considering disallowing users to subscribe to its service from their iPhones, one Apple manager floated imposing “punitive measures” on Netflix for its temerity in looking to escape the Apple tax. (Netflix and other streaming services did eventually prevent users from subscribing through their iPhone apps.)Japanese public health experts are similarly united in opposing the Games. Haruo Ozaki, chairman of the Tokyo Medical Association, said, “It is extremely difficult to hold the Games without increasing infections, both within and outside Japan.” Kentaro Iwata, an infectious-disease specialist at Kobe University Hospital, was blunter: “How the hell can you speak of a sports event gathering so many spectators, staff, volunteers, nurses and doctors? Who could enjoy the Games in this situation?”
The response of Olympic power brokers? Platitudes and hygiene theater.
“The Japanese people have demonstrated their perseverance throughout their history, and it’s only because of this ability of the Japanese people to overcome adversity that these Olympic Games under these very difficult circumstances are possible,” the I.O.C. president said in a statement. The 78,000 Olympic volunteers are reportedly being allotted a handful of cloth masks, some sanitizer and social-distancing slogans.
Last month, Olympic organizers issued guidelines designed to mitigate the dangers of Covid-19. All participants must register two negative tests before departing for Japan and will be tested daily on arrival. They are urged to refrain from using public transport and to order takeout meals rather than dine in restaurants. But athletes are not required to quarantine, nor must they be vaccinated. Overseas spectators are not allowed to attend; nevertheless, tens of thousands of people will enter Japan for the Games.
In theory, the I.O.C., local Olympic organizers and the Japanese government — which has shoveled billions in public funds to stage the Games — consult with each other on decisions like cancellation and postponement. But an addendum to the Olympic host city contract states that the I.O.C. is ultimately responsible for decisions when it comes to making “a significant change in the overall scope of the Games.”
The I.O.C. often trumpets its “athletes first” approach, insisting that input from Olympians is key to the Tokyo 2020 decision-making process. But high-profile athletes, including the Japanese tennis phenom Naomi Osaka, are wondering aloud whether the Games should proceed. The most recent Tokyo 2020 “playbook” for athletes and officials can’t possibly assuage athletes’ stress; it states, “despite all the care taken, risks and impacts may not be fully eliminated, and therefore you agree to attend the Olympic and Paralympic Games at your own risk.” That sounds more like a Covid-19 waiver than “athletes first.”
Olympic officials often profess the Games are about much more than sport. If the pandemic has taught us anything, it’s that some things — camaraderie, family, friends, public health — matter more than money. The I.O.C. has been slow to realize this, but there is still time to do the right thing.
The I.O.C. oversees the most pervasive yet least accountable sport infrastructure in the world. The group appears to have fallen under the spell of its own congenital impunity. Pressing ahead with the Olympics risks drinking poison to quench our thirst for sport. The possibility of a superspreader catastrophe is not worth it for an optional sporting spectacle. It’s time to cancel the Tokyo Olympics.
Jules Boykoff (@JulesBoykoff) is a professor of political science at Pacific University and the author of “NOlympians” and “Power Games: A Political History of the Olympics.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.So, yes, she should be celebrated in our passport. And there her quote reads: “The cause of freedom is not the cause of a race or a sect, a party or a class — it is the cause of humankind and the very birthright of humanity.” If any single quote sums up the purported American values, I’d say that’s it.
When I travel abroad, I think about what it means to be traveling as an American. I feel like an ambassador of sorts — that my behavior, my language skills (or lack thereof), my choice of restaurants or museums reflect not just on me, but on all Americans. I also think about what it means to be traveling as a woman.
When my friend Adriann and I were planning that trip to Morocco, we got a lot of advice: Women should cover their shoulders and their legs. Expect to haggle when shopping. Consider hiring a male guide to navigate the souks of Marrakesh. Some of that advice we followed (we dressed modestly), and some we didn’t (we braved the markets on our own). We asked a lot of questions about what neighborhoods to stay in, where to eat and what sites to see. But we never questioned whether we, as women, could go to Morocco.
No one ever told me I couldn’t go somewhere because I am a woman. No one ever told me I couldn’t vote because I am a woman. And no one ever told me I couldn’t hold a certain job because I am a woman. None of this is to say that the fight for equality is over or that all American women can say the same things. But as an American woman, I am free to travel without a man and without permission. And I can afford to travel because of the education I received and the jobs I’ve held. It is equality that was hard won by countless women who came before me. Women like Anna Julia Cooper.kara swisher
I’m Kara Swisher and you’re listening to Sway. My guest today is Jake Tapper, the CNN anchor and the network’s chief Washington correspondent. I wanted to talk to him about the past four years and what it means for the future of broadcast journalism. We’re also going to talk about Tapper’s novel, “The Devil May Dance.” It’s a thriller that takes readers to the Washington and Hollywood of the 1960s. And speaking of Hollywood, Tapper and I are chatting on the heels of some big media news, or potential news, that would affect CNN and its president Jeff Zucker, who is poised to leave the network at the end of this year. AT&T is currently trying to make a deal to spinoff CNN’s parent company, Warner Media. There’s a possible merger in the works with Discovery. The resulting media juggernaut would be headed up by Discovery chief David Zaslav and, so they say, would be worth more than $100 billion. So I started by asking Tapper, a newsman, what does this news mean for him and CNN?
jake tapper
OK. First of all, from a selfish point of view, if this means that Jeff Zucker stays at CNN longer or stays in the company longer.
kara swisher
Right. Which is a possibility.
jake tapper
Which is a possibility now because he has a really good, long relationship with David Zaslav, the head of Discovery, then that’s really good news for those of us who like working with Jeff Zucker, which includes me certainly. So two, I think just in terms of the survival of the company in this ever-changing world, Its good news because if we are teamed with Discovery, which is an incredibly strong brand, that’s great. That’s great news for CNN’s survival and for Warner Media’s survival. Because there are not going to be like 3,000 giant companies, it’s going to be like five or six giant companies and a lot of teeny ones.
kara swisher
Who do you think your actual competitors are? Because it’s certainly not Disney. It is tech companies, really,
jake tapper
Yeah, Netflix, Amazon, Facebook, Apple. I don’t think that it’s going to last forever that these companies are not in the news space because it is compelling and you can’t only do binge-worthy dramas and sitcoms. What do you think?
kara swisher
I think that you’re all fighting with each other and they’re going to crush you. That’s what I think ultimately. I think they could wait you out, I think all these companies.
jake tapper
Who, Facebook and —
kara swisher
All of them, all the tech companies. And I think this moving around of parts, you can get bigger, you know that’s really the goal here. And a lot of people decry media consolidation but you’re small. I mean if a phone company couldn’t save you with all their money, and they have a lot of money.
jake tapper
Yeah, I mean I think the question is, what does that mean in terms of content? I’m on TikTok and all that, but at the same time, is Facebook going to just like keep using the content that media companies provide without paying for it? Or are they going to start doing their own original content? They obviously get a lot of free content that’s from, like, unreliable sources.
kara swisher
Yeah. Yes, they do.
jake tapper
I think there’s always going to be a market for reliable news organizations. I think that’s why The New York Times, which is not a giant company, will always continue to survive and thrive.
kara swisher
Yeah, as a small company. It’s kind of interesting to think about giant media. When I first started covering the internet, the media companies were ascendant and now they’re small and phone companies are small. I mean AT&T, your owner right now, stock has declined $10 since this deal. And it’s worth $200 billion, well Apple is worth $2 trillion.
jake tapper
But don’t you think at some point of these companies is going to buy, theoretically, so let’s say there’s this Warner Media-Discovery apparatus, don’t you think at some point Apple is going to buy something like that?
kara swisher
I think they’re going to buy Jake Tapper. They don’t need to buy it. I think it gets them into trouble from a regulatory point of view and they can buy Jake Tapper at some point. I don’t know if Jake Tapper is for sale, but is he? I’m not sure.
jake tapper
Well, I don’t, what do, I mean, how much you offering?
kara swisher
Oh, God! Everyone has a price, Jake. I don’t know. But when I interviewed your colleague, Don Lemon, we discussed the future news and he brought up the possibility of, quote, “a Don Lemon subscription network” in a decade. Do you see that as the future of news? The personality-driven news channels that are even more self-selected?
jake tapper
I mean Don and I do different things and primetime is different from late afternoon, early evening, which is when I’m on. And the show I’m doing right now from 4:00 to 6:00 Eastern every day, every weekday, is the show I want to do. And it relies on there being an international news network like CNN where Clarissa Ward, who’s an amazing reporter, or a Nima Elbagir, who is an amazing reporter, can go into Ethiopia and go into Myanmar and hand in to me an amazing 9-minute piece that we can air that would not air on World News Tonight or NBC Nightly News because it’s too long and too foreign.
kara swisher
So you’re talking about a news show.
jake tapper
Yeah.
kara swisher
You’re saying it’s much more news oriented and yet you’ve become a personality. I mean, not many people have an “SNL” skit done on them, obviously. How do you look at news changing? I think about it a lot. Like what is a brand and who is the person. I myself have had a career where it’s more about me than the news organization that I happen to be sitting at the time. Do you think that’s a good thing?
jake tapper
I see what the role I played from 2015 to now as more a manifestation of the deviation of the Republican Party and Donald Trump from normal political behavior then I do the deviation of me from normal broadcasting. I think Don’s show is different from mine. And Don’s a different person and Don’s in primetime and I’m not. So it’s called for different energies because people coming to primetime wanting something different than when they come to watch the news at 4:00 or 5:00. But I see my role as not being particularly opinionated except for things about which I think it’s fine to have an opinion such as truth and facts and just basic decency. But I’m not out there saying, this tax bill needs to be this or this particular legislation needs to pass. That’s not my style.
kara swisher
Yeah, you’re sort of talking about the emotionality of it. Don and I had an argument that, I thought he was too emotional in a lot of ways. But at the same time, you do a lot of work with your eyebrows, I have to say. I always know how you think by how you arch — I’m like, oh.
jake tapper
Well that’s just my face.
kara swisher
OK, that’ just my face. That’s your excuse? That’s just my face.
jake tapper
I mean I’m not purposefully doing it. And these faces that have become memes are not on purpose. They’re just authentically reactive to what’s going on. And I try to not do anything purposeful like that but sometimes it’s tough to not. I mean look, we can’t pretend the last four or five years have been normal in terms of the players and the people that we’ve been covering and what they’ve been saying and what they’ve been doing. I would like to go back to a time when we could just have more normal politicians come on. But the Republican Party has decided to pursue this path of lies. Not everybody in the Republican Party, but too many in the Republican Party. All three house leaders of the Republican Party where they’re just saying things that are not true, and The New York Times is adjusting its behavior accordingly as well. I mean you guys didn’t used to use the word ’“lie,” certainly not in headlines and now you do. But that’s not the times changing its style per se as much as it is The Times changing, necessarily adjusting, to a reality. If The Times had been covering Joe McCarthy in the ‘50s the way that it’s covering Donald Trump’s lies, who knows what would have happened.
kara swisher
Being more forceful or calling what is something.
jake tapper
Yeah and the first book, the first novel, I wrote was about the McCarthy era. And one of the things that’s very clear if you cover that era.
kara swisher
This is “The Hellfire Club.”
jake tapper
“The Hellfire Club,” yeah. One of the things that’s very clear about that era is that the news media didn’t know how to deal with it. The news media didn’t know how to deal with somebody who was just like making crap up. A United States Senator just making it up. And a whole bunch of people in the Senate, not just Republicans, by the way, kind of going along with it.
kara swisher
So in that case it snapped back to reality and it went back to normal, whatever normal is. Do you imagine that happening here when you’re thinking about delivering the news? I mean, I think everyone’s straining to get back to normal and you’ve gotten a respite with the very calm President Biden. We can have issues with him but they’re the more typical. Trump is off of Twitter, making noise all that every day of the week, which I’m sure drove a lot of news organizations crazy. Do you imagine it going back to normal? I think it’s going the other direction but that’s me.
jake tapper
I agree. To me it’s like the question about would you rather fight a horse-sized duck or 10 duck-sized horses? I think we had a horse-sized duck in the Trump era and now we have 100 duck-sized horses. Now we have these little, mini Trumps, these little, mini liars.
kara swisher
And how’s that going when you’re covering it?
jake tapper
Well, I think it’s less of a direct, clear and present danger to the idea of facts and truth and more of a slow burn. But at the same time you look at what’s going on with House Republicans right now and the purge of Liz Cheney and the booing of Mitt Romney at the Utah Republican convention. I mean these are signs that the reality has changed and the whole zeitgeist on the Republican side is changing. Not that Liz Cheney is all of a sudden liberal or that Mitt Romney is all of a sudden some progressive. The reality has changed. And that’s why The Times and me and others, I think, have changed. And I think it’s important that we not go too far. I think it’s important that we say, these are the lines. And again, I don’t think anchors should have positions on policies per se, but I think we can have positions on hypocrisy and lies.
kara swisher
Which you did quite a bit, with the most famous being Kellyanne Conway when you did that. But can you spend your life doing that? Can that continue? Because it certainly works and they keep pushing the line.
jake tapper
Well first of all, I mean, talk about pushing the line. Kellyanne Conway did not lie about the election. Kellyanne Conway like in that world.
kara swisher
Now she’s OK. No I’m teasing.
jake tapper
Yeah, but you know what I mean? She didn’t go that far. She quit the Trump White House, she’s not out there spreading Trump election lies. Yeah, I mean this is something that I wrestle with every day which is why you’re hearing the struggle in my voice.
kara swisher
I like hearing the struggle. Go ahead.
jake tapper
Which is I have not booked, since the election, anyone who’s engaged in these lies. I just, I haven’t. It’s not a policy but it’s a philosophy where I just don’t want to deal with it. I don’t want to deal and it really saddens me because there are Republican members of Congress with whom I respect, or formerly did. And there’s too many important things to deal with right now in terms of what’s going on in the Middle East or in Africa or in Myanmar or China or Russia. And, also, if you’re willing to lie about that, what else are you willing to lie about? And why should my viewers listen to you?
kara swisher
Yeah. Yeah. So who do you book? It’s dwindling. It’s a dwindling group of people.
jake tapper
Well, I mean there’s about a third of the House Republican caucus that I am willing to book. I could name them to you if you want.
kara swisher
So Kevin McCarthy? No.
jake tapper
I would not book Kevin McCarthy.
kara swisher
Steve.
jake tapper
No. Steve Scalise? I wouldn’t. Now if they came to me and said that they wanted to, I don’t think any of them, Scalise or McCarthy or Stefanik, have faced a tough interview at all about it. So I might be willing to interview one of them to talk about this, to talk about their election lies and what they’re doing. But I’m not asking for the interview and they’re not eager to do it, no.
kara swisher
Obviously Trump has created a lot of this. For some reason he has an unusual and charismatic hold and I want to talk about that because your books have a lot of those kind of characters. What do you blame? Do you blame social media? When you’re trying to cover the news and you’re watching this happen, this sort of mutation of truth, do you think, it’s Twitter? Oh, it’s Facebook? Oh, it’s cable news?
jake tapper
Well it starts with Trump, obviously. It starts with Trump. It starts with Trump and then the next group are the people that Trump faced in 2015, 2016 who weren’t willing to take him on until it was too late because they thought somebody else would do it. I remember moderating the debate in Simi Valley at the Reagan Library in 2015 and thinking, wow, none of them are really going to take him on. They have no idea. They have no idea. So the Jeb Bushes and the Marco Rubios and the Ted Cruzes and all them who just wouldn’t do it until it was too late. And then the Republican establishment to coalesce around him. And then the people in the news media who pretended, who went along to get along. I think a lot of people who interviewed Trump. I mean if you interviewed Trump while he was president and you did an interview that didn’t make any news, then you should not be a journalist. You should hang it up.
kara swisher
All right. So now, just to be fair, CNN has also come under heat for its coverage of Trump.
jake tapper
Sure. So has The New York Times.
kara swisher
Yes, indeed. But you were there from the jump. Here’s a clip of an early interview Donald Trump gave you even before he became Republican nominee in 2016.
jake tapper Hillary Clinton was giving a speech. She had some very tough things to say about you. One of the things she said. donald trump She wasn’t giving, she was reading a speech that was written by other people, OK? But go ahead. jake tapper OK. donald trump Sound bites. jake tapper One of the things, one of the things she said was, “This is not someone who should have the nuclear codes. It’s not hard to imagine Donald Trump leading us into war because someone got under his very thin skin.” What’s your response to that? donald trump Well, first of all, I don’t have thin skin. I have very strong, very thick skin. And when somebody is right about me, I always, you know, if you do a report and it’s not necessarily positive but you’re right, I never complain. I do complain when it’s a lie or when it’s wrong, but I have a strong temperament. And it’s a very good temperament.
kara swisher
How do you think about that?
jake tapper
I don’t even remember which one that was.
kara swisher
Yeah, yeah.
jake tapper
I will say this. When I look back on interviews that I did with him in 2015 and 2016 and then, by the way, we never got another one, nobody at CNN after 2016. I think that my interviews with him in that era are among the tougher TV interviews that he did. Not all of them but some of them certainly stand out. The one where I challenged him on his attacking Judge Curiel was racist et cetera.
kara swisher
That one you did talk about Judge Curiel.
jake tapper
Is that the Judge Curiel interview?
kara swisher
Yes.
jake tapper
So that’s the last interview I did with him. They wouldn’t let me interview him ever again. But that said, I’m not giving myself any pats on the back because I don’t think any of us were tough enough. I think the entire world was figuring out how to grapple with this phenomenon. Everybody — Republican candidates, the Republican establishment, the public, The New York Times, CNN, me, you. I mean, everyone, Maggie. I mean, everybody. And trying to figure out how to do it.
kara swisher
So you would conduct an interview differently today. it’s kind of interesting to wonder how one would conduct interview. By the way, in that interview the CNN ticker over it reads, Trump has thick skin. I love the people who do your tickers. What would you ask him right now?
jake tapper
Oh, my God.
kara swisher
First question. Besides, what is wrong with you?
jake tapper
Well, I don’t think he’s capable of answering that question, but I think I would come armed with all sorts of evidence and information about the election. And I think I would spend the entire time talking about the election, and talking about how he’s lying about the election. And here is the evidence, and here’s the proof, and here’s the Republican election official who supports what I’m saying in Arizona, and the Republican election official who reports what I’m saying from Philadelphia, and on and on and on and on. But at that point, you’re not really interviewing somebody, you’re trying to make a point to the American people about this person is lying and I have the evidence and all he has is bluster.
kara swisher
Yeah, I’d start asking about his parents, actually. That’s what I would ask him about.
jake tapper
Fred?
kara swisher
I would just completely ask about his parents.
jake tapper
Just to throw him? Or because you’re interested in the fact that his father didn’t give him the love he needed and therefore he ended up doing this.
kara swisher
I think there’s a whole lot of stuff there. I don’t know. That’s where I’d start because I think it might be an access point because right now it’s an impermeable wall of lies.
jake tapper
There are very few presidents we’ve had who didn’t have daddy issues one way or another. Biden, actually, is an exception to the daddy-issue rule.
kara swisher
[LAUGHING] The daddy-issue rule.
jake tapper
We’ll think about it. Trump, Trump’s dad didn’t give him the love he needed according to family members. Obama’s dad was absent, literally absent. Obama probably has mommy issues, too, because his mom was kind of a bohemian. And then George W. Bush, obviously, everything with his trying to live up to his dad’s example, trying to not make the same mistakes his dad made, quote-unquote, “mistakes.” I mean, really, the ones without father issues, daddy issues, are the exception.
kara swisher
All right. My last question about CNN, obviously, is going to be a Chris Cuomo question. And listen, let me just say, I know this is not your responsibility. I’m not responsible for everything New York Times reporters do, most of whom I don’t even know, right? That kind of thing. But let me just put it out. The CNN anchor recused himself from covering sexual harassment allegations against his brother, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. Now it’s been reported that Chris had been actively engaging with his brother’s staff on strategy calls about how the governor should handle these allegations. He told him to hang tough, essentially, et cetera. CNN has come out to say that Chris Cuomo’s participation was, quote, “inappropriate.” I completely agree with that. I was shocked I would have to say, I think it’s beyond inappropriate. But the anchor offered an on air apology to his colleagues. Is that enough for you? Is his apology enough and does it affect you?
jake tapper
Such a complicated issue. And obviously this is my company and my home and my workplace. And so, that said, I cannot imagine a world in which anybody in journalism thinks that that was appropriate. So I agree with that. And he said, Chris, in his apology that he delivered on air, said that he put us in a bad spot. And I would also agree with that. And then just as a last point I would say that I work very hard to be fair and to be ethical and to not cross lines. And I certainly understand the love that Chris has for his brother, and I have a brother and I get it. But that was not a fun day.
kara swisher
Yeah. Does it affect your work?
jake tapper
It doesn’t affect my work. Their work is not my work and my work is not their work. And yes, we all reflect on each other. But the only thing I have a role in, the only thing I have any control in, because I’m not management, right? I’m not the CNN Bureau Chief of DC, I don’t have a say in anything other than what airs on my show.
kara swisher
One of the things I’ve noticed about your show is you do have a lot of women on your show. CNN, I talked to Don about this, for being a bit of a boys club. And former anchor, Brooke Baldwin, pointed out the influence and salary of men over there. Do you think there needs to be more changes at home?
jake tapper
I think what Brooke said was wrong. I love Brooke, I’m a fan of Brooke, but I think what she said was just factually incorrect. I know a number of women anchors, Dana Bash, Abby Phillip, Kate Baldwin, Erin Burnett, Brianna Keilar, Alisyn Camerota, Ana Cabrera, I mean there’s so many. And I think to suggest that there aren’t it kind of —
kara swisher
That they don’t have influence.
jake tapper
It’s not true. And also there are a number, I mean, arguably Allison Gollust of communications is one of the most powerful and influential people at CNN. Women run a lot at CNN. In terms of my show, just because you touched on it, the only thing I’ll say is it’s very important to me, as a white man, to make sure that the show reflects the diversity of our nation. And I’m always telling my team, and they know this, and my team is incredibly diverse, that I don’t want any all-white men panels ever. Period. Done. I don’t want it. I don’t want it and it does happen, rarely. I support my women colleagues mainly because they’re excellent. But yes, I also like supporting fixing the problems.
kara swisher
Does that include conservatives? Because, obviously, Rick Santorum gets endless shit, deservedly.
jake tapper
Yeah.
kara swisher
If you’re thinking about that. Now Fox has no illusions, they don’t do it at all. They just do whatever they please.
jake tapper
But “fair and balanced,” Kara.
kara swisher
[LAUGHING] Do you think about that?
jake tapper
Yes. Ideological diversity, too. Absolutely, ideological diversity. 100%.
kara swisher
How do you do that given —
jake tapper
I think it’s very important because most of this country, we need to reflect everybody, and this country is so divided in so many different ways, and we to have people represented. Now, that does not include liars, I don’t care about, there’s no truth diversity. People who tell the truth and people who lie, I mean I’m not willing to do that. But yeah, conservatives, absolutely.
kara swisher
We’ll be back in a minute. If you like this interview and want to hear others, follow us on your favorite podcast app. You’ll be able to catch up on “Sway” episodes you may have missed, like my conversation with Warner Media CEO Jason Kilar you’ll get new ones delivered directly to you. More with Jake Tapper after the break. So what event right now is most like fiction? Is it Trump himself?
jake tapper
I think it’s the hold he has on the party. From Mar-a-Lago or now Bedminster, where he’s basically just golfing and then he’s got this little group of supporters around him who make a lot of money from their closeness to him and he just has this stranglehold and it’s entirely based on him.
kara swisher
And would that make for good fiction?
jake tapper
Yeah. So much of this past era has been, and I say this as somebody who dabbles in fiction and who has a lot of friends who write fiction, so much of this era has been so on-the-nose that you would get laughed out of a writer’s room. People would say, oh so, the president who’s already accused of being racist, calls Baltimore a shithole, and then it turns out his son-in-law is a slumlord in Baltimore. That’s a little much, right? That’s a little much for like “Law and Order: SVU,” much less reality. I mean that’s like, come on, that didn’t really happen. That couldn’t have happened.
kara swisher
Right.
jake tapper
Yes. No, that happened. That’s not even a major story of the Trump era.
kara swisher
And then bleach.
jake tapper
Oh, yeah, the bleaching and the doctors running around trying to figure out how to save lives while the president is giving advice that is contrary to what they’re saying. And meanwhile, they somehow got him to OK this money to help develop these lifesaving vaccines and ultimately he gets the coronavirus. And he is medevacked.
kara swisher
This is your next book.
jake tapper
But I mean you couldn’t write it. If I wrote it you’d be like, Jake, I found this book —
kara swisher
Come on.
jake tapper
A little heavy-handed. This scene where the president actually gets the coronavirus after defying all health orders and belittling the threat, and has to be medevacked to Walter Reed, and then you get the doctors to lie about how well he is. Don’t you think it’s a little?
kara swisher
Do you know, Elon Musk thinks it’s a simulation, and I do too at this point. That it’s a bunch of teens in the future trying to fuck with us.
jake tapper
Yeah, exactly. Like just seriously smoking bowls and like laughing. And now we’re going to make it, OK, so Trump goes away but like now we’re going to have 30 little mini-Trumps. [LAUGHTER]
kara swisher
Let’s talk about your book, “The Devil May Dance.” It’s a thriller. You’re not the only person in Washington who’s writing fiction. Hillary Clinton is coming out with a thriller this fall, I think Bill Clinton worked on a couple.
jake tapper
He’s got, with James Patterson.
kara swisher
James Patterson. Stacey Abrams has been writing novels under a pen name for this year.
jake tapper
She’s been writing fiction for a long time.
kara swisher
She has. This is a thriller, I think she’s writing, her next one. Bill O’Reilly, obviously, has done it. What’s going on? Is there is just too much reality for everyone in Washington? Does reality, Jake, I think you’re in the same era I am, does reality just bite?
jake tapper
I think, first of all, great film. I love that film, underrated film.
kara swisher
Very much so. Just so people who don’t know, because we’re super-old, is “Reality Bites” with Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawke. But go ahead.
jake tapper
For me, it’s just I wanted to be a screenwriter and a cartoonist out of college. And so this was something I wanted to do long before I knew I wanted to be a journalist. I went to film school after college. I went to University of Southern California.
kara swisher
What kind of films would you have made?
jake tapper
Somewhere in the genre, and please know that I do not think I’m anywhere near as talented, but somewhere between Noah Baumbach and Quentin Tarantino.
kara swisher
That’s an interesting space.
jake tapper
Some sort of smart, violent — so I toyed around with a lot of different fiction ideas over the years. And then in 2014, 2015 I finally sat down and figured out a way to do it.
kara swisher
So here you are though, setting this novel in Hollywood. The previous one was set in Washington during the McCarthy era. This book moves it very quickly to Hollywood during the Kennedy administration with a scene involving the Rat Pack. It opens in a graveyard.
jake tapper
It opens a Forrest Lawn Cemetery where Charlie and Margaret, my heroes, are running around with the Rat Pack.
kara swisher
What in this period did you find so fascinating?
jake tapper
Well the inspiration for the book came from the true story of the fact that after campaigning his heart out for President Kennedy, Frank Sinatra expected that Kennedy would stay with him during a presidential visit. Which isn’t so crazy. Senator Kennedy had stayed with him as a candidate so he had his Rancho Mirage and Palm Springs estate, his compound, built up to add rooms and phone lines. Meanwhile, attorney General Robert Kennedy was investigating and going after organized crime. And it came pretty clear that one of the people he was investigating, Sam Giancana, a major mobster in Chicago, was really good friends with Frank Sinatra. Legitimately good friends, hung out with Frank Sinatra. And so Robert Kennedy had this choice — do I offend one of the biggest stars on the planet who helped get my brother elected in a very narrow election? Or do I let my brother stay in a place where literally mobsters have slept while I’m actually going after the same mobsters? And that true story was, when I heard about it, I was like, oh, my God, I’m going to start my next novel in that scene because I’ll get to do the Kennedys and the Rat Pack and Hollywood and let’s see what else is going on during that era. It just seemed like a lot of fun terrain.
kara swisher
The fictitious New York congressman Charlie Marder is your central character and his wife, who’s a zoologist, Margaret. You describe him as an Eisenhower-Rockefeller Republican. Later in the book you call his father, Winston, a Teddy Roosevelt Republican. In the ‘80s we had Reagan Republicans, today we describe as Trump Republicans. Why did you pick this character to be this? To be this Eisenhower-Rockefeller Republican, the old Republicans?
jake tapper
You know, I thought it was important to make him a Republican because there was this, in that era, there was this school of moderate Republicans. Barely exists anymore but they were strong foreign policy, low taxes, smaller government Republicans. Eisenhower, Rockefeller, Thomas Dewey, who was the governor of New York. And they’re kind of, I wouldn’t say they’re extinct, but they’re certainly an endangered species. And I don’t know, I just felt like that would be first of all, to have a hero who was a Republican Congressman I thought was a fun idea. Second of all, I think it’s important, just as I try to build up conservative and Republican voices on my TV show who are —
kara swisher
You bring them into the book.
jake tapper
Yeah, but there’s a whole world of Republicans that I think are trashed by Democrats and to a degree trashed by the media. But I think it’s important for there to be a thriving Republican Party. And maybe Charlie is kind of like a wish of what more Republicans were like. Republican officials, I should say, not Republican voters.
kara swisher
He doesn’t like Bobby Kennedy but he sort of goes to Hollywood for Bobby Kennedy. We meet him early on in the book.
jake tapper
Yeah. He’s kind of blackmailed into doing it, but yeah.
kara swisher
Yeah, into doing it. But we don’t get an idealized version, a Camelot version, of the Kennedy administration, politics in general. We see a lot of deal cutting and arm twisting. Talk a little bit about how you created this idea that he’s going out to work for Bobby Kennedy in some fashion?
jake tapper
I like the later incarnation of Bobby Kennedy, the Bobby Kennedy of the late ‘60s. But that was not the Bobby Kennedy of the ‘50s and the early ‘60s when he was an operator and he worked on the McCarthy committee to root out communists. And John F Kennedy was not an outspoken anti-McCarthyite. And at this point in the Kennedy years, President Kennedy was cautious and Bobby Kennedy was the enforcer. And I mean look, on its face, you think about the idea that like how could this even be a question, is President Kennedy going to stay at the house were mobsters sleep. I mean think about that. That’s nuts. But the fact that this was even a debate gives you an idea of how morally compromised this world is which is the theme of the book. “The Devil May Dance” title is a fake Sinatra song that I wrote and the song is about dancing with the devil. It’s about the compromises you make when you deal with people who are shady.
kara swisher
So who is the devil in your book?
jake tapper
Well, it isn’t a spoiler alert, but the people who are willing to do anything, whether in media or whether in politics or whether in business. I mean, it has an effect on you and the question is, how much are you willing to dance with the devil?
kara swisher
I’m fascinated that you’ve added lyricist to your resume. Does your fiction writing aim to correct nostalgia that some people have for Washington in the past? Because there’s a lot of echoes going on here to the current year. I think nobody reading it can’t see that.
jake tapper
It’s not corrective so much as it is, because there isn’t anything that compares to this last year that we just live through. But it is corrective in the sense that nobody should idealize how awful it was in the ‘50s and ‘60s for women and for minority groups. I mean there’s some really slimy stuff that took place. Again, I don’t want to spoil the book, but anybody who knows anything about what the Kennedys were willing to do, and others, to get Fidel Castro are aware that there’s some very shady deals.
kara swisher
Right. Charlie’s wife, Margaret, I don’t want to leave her out, is a trained zoologist which makes for a good analyst of human animals, too. At one point the book she describes realizing how human boldface names really are first in Washington and Hollywood. And you write, quote, “Public images were as fragile as they were phony. ” Is this something that Hollywood and Washington share, the difference between perception and reality?
jake tapper
Yeah, it’s the same, right? It’s the complete same. People having these images of what they stand for or what they represent and if it’s not who you are, I think, today, maybe not back in the ‘50s and ‘60s, but today it will be outed at some. One way or another. If you are Jerry Falwell Junior and your life is maybe not as pious as you would have it, it’s going to come out. And I think in this era, in the ‘60s it didn’t.
kara swisher
Reporters did that for Kennedy, for example, around his womanizing.
jake tapper
Yeah, they covered it all up. They covered it all up. So the point in the book was to kind of like show this without being preachy about it. But also just to show this is what was going on.
kara swisher
Yeah. This is a thriller. A lot of intrigue, a few dead bodies. Is this how you unwound during the 2020 campaign?
jake tapper
Not so much the dead bodies, but hanging out with the Rat Pack, yeah, it was a huge escape. Especially covering the pandemic was so bleak and awful. And obviously we’re still in it but at least we’re climbing out of it.
kara swisher
By the way, I unwind with Ally Love on the Peloton. So do your thing, Jake, it sounds great.
jake tapper
I love Ally Love. I’m more of a, the guy with the French name, what’s his name? Alex—
kara swisher
Alex Toussaint.
jake tapper
Alex Toussaint, yes, Toussaint.
kara swisher
So, I have three or four more questions. So in 2014, CNN hit a low in primetime viewership. By 2020, average primetime viewership had more than tripled. Now it’s gone back down, obviously, and it’s gone across the board, let’s be fair.
jake tapper
Yeah, for everybody. Digital subscriptions for The Times, Post, everyone, yeah.
kara swisher
How do you recover and what are the stories, then?
jake tapper
Yeah, people watched a lot of news. A lot of it was people who were terrified of what was happening to the country. And now I hear from some of them, they don’t watch as much because they’re not as worried. Obviously Trump’s fans also watched a lot and then don’t watch as much. So it’s not unusual for ratings to go down after an election year. And what I have found is, yes, ratings are not as high as they were, but there is still an audience, I, think that has discovered that they are news junkies. Whether it’s Times readers or CNN viewers or other media outlets.
kara swisher
How do you get people, though? People may be news junkies but they’re hopped up on adrenaline, really, like that’s really what it is.
jake tapper
You know, I think we lost the cotton-candy viewers, the people who just want the sugar high. I think they’re gone. And they’ll come back if they feel like there’s some other crisis but they’re living their lives and that’s OK. | think the people that we have now are people who want to know what matters. This is just my feeling based on social media and email and from viewers and that sort of thing. Like people who are now engaged, Trump got them engaged. Whether they like Trump or they don’t like Trump, Trump got them engaged, now they are invested in news and they want to know what’s going on. And whether that’s policing or January 6, or, I mean, look, the Trump story is not over. I mean there are investigations, you got new elections coming up in which the Republicans are in all likelihood going to take the House. That’s a story. You have an election liar who’s going to be Speaker of the House. And, by the way, you have Governor Cuomo. I mean that’s a story. Here’s a major American governor who is embroiled in several different scandals having to do with sexual harassment which he denies, we should say. Whether or not he fudged data on nursing home deaths, his $5 million book deal.
kara swisher
Yeah, it’s a lot of money. They’re never getting that back, by the way.
jake tapper
Oh, no, I think he sold like 40,000 books, which is fine. But for or $5 million book contract, that is not that fine.
kara swisher
That is not fine. So that. And you’re leaving bring out the special people who got —
jake tapper
And the allegations that’s being investigated right now of whether or not anybody, including his brother, got priority when it comes to testing.
kara swisher
And what about the Biden administration? I mean, one of the things, you did cover Donald Trump diligently and there’s lots to cover. there was all kinds of stuff going on. What do you and the network doing to ensure the same level of scrutiny for Joe Biden? Because it’s a little bit harder because it’s not quite as, you know, problematic.
jake tapper
Yeah, I mean there have been times that we’ve called him out, when they blocked the press from entering the facility for children in Texas. I said on TV, that’s not leveling with the American people, Mr President. I mean the US support for the hideous Saudi blockade of food getting into Yemen. We did reports on that. And we will continue to cover more. It’s early days for the Biden administration, we’re only 100 and something days.
kara swisher
Do you like Jennifer Psaki, by the way, speaking of Biden’s.
jake tapper
As a person?
kara swisher
I don’t know, I don’t know her. As a press secretary.
jake tapper
Yes. Sure. I mean, she’s a press secretary so she does what press secretaries do which is not answer questions and spin. But.
kara swisher
She’s certainly more entertaining.
jake tapper
Look, I mean, I know her because I started covering Obama in 2006, I don’t even know, 2005. So I met her in, I think, 2007. So I’ve known her for a long, long time and yeah, she’s a nice person. I mean, I like Dana Perino with Bush, I like Scott McClellan. There were this sort of level of basic decency with press secretaries that even if they don’t always give you all the information you need, are generally helpful people who are trying to get your questions answered and want you to say think things are nice but also understand your job is to hold the government accountable et cetera, et cetera. And what we had with Sean Spicer, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, and Kayleigh McEnany was just —
kara swisher
Yeah. something else.
jake tapper
Aberrance.
kara swisher
Yeah. So one of the things that we talked about is how Trump has probably changed the news. CNN, of course, has been critiqued as fake news, polarized, leaning left. So can you imagine a world where it can retreat and be perceived and received as straight news?
jake tapper
Yes, I can. Although I have to say, we will never be free of criticism. Look, as somebody who was attacked from the left for years during the Obama years, and now that Trump is gone-ish, is attacked from the left again, quite often. So there will never be a time when CNN is not criticized is my only point. People come to journalism with their own views of the world. And we work to, if we’re good reporters, to remove the unfair biases. But that doesn’t mean we remove all sense of purpose and analysis and trying to find out what the facts are. And I think that journalists need to work to, every day, earn the trust of their readers or their viewers or their listeners. Every day. And listen to constructive criticism and tune out the noise. And it’s a journey, not a destination.
kara swisher
Yeah, I don’t know about that. I told my mother, who’s a Fox News watcher, I was interviewing you and she’s like, oh, he lies. CNN lies, not you. Not you, Jake Tapper, she likes you better. And of course she’s deep in the Fox News hole, so it’s really hard to pull her out. Do you imagine any redemption for them, too? Because they’re quite —
jake tapper
Fox?
kara swisher
Yeah. Because there’s some very good news reporters there, too.
jake tapper
Let me just say that I think Chris Wallace is good at his job. And I think that, I know that there are good journalists at Fox, reporters. But there is also a tremendous amount of not just opinion, because opinion is whatever, that’s fine, I don’t have a problem with there being a center left or center right channel or opinion shows. Is there anything wrong, empirically, with there being a conservative TV host or a liberal TV host sharing their opinions the way, for instance, let’s just say Rachel Maddow does? No, on a theoretical basis, no. The question is what about when they are trafficking in lies, like election lies, when they do not hold their guests to account for lies or defamation or nastiness? My concern is not that there is a center right network or a conservative network. My concern is that there is a network that shares misinformation, false information, and too often I think seems to be focused on attacking people, meanness, trolling.
kara swisher
I don’t know if you’ve noticed Facebook. Hate works, it really does. Enragement leads to engagement. It does.
jake tapper
Yes, of course, of course it does. But that’s like I remember when the evening newscast started getting softer and softer and softer and softer. And it was like everybody knew that you could get viewers that way, by showing kitten videos. But there was a sense of shame about it. Well now there is a shamelessness about it. And it’s not just cable, I mean I’m talking about what’s happening at network news, too. There is a degree to which shame has gone out the window and people are not like, well, I have this responsibility so let me tell you what’s going on in Syria. Which, by the way. I don’t think we need to be doing that 24/7, but on occasion. Or let’s talk about poverty in this country versus here’s some cotton candy and here’s a kitten video. Or, the flip side, here’s an enemy. Here’s a woman for you to hate. Here’s today’s woman for you to hate.
kara swisher
Well, maybe Rupert Murdoch would make an excellent fictional book character. Just a suggestion.
jake tapper
Too broad. Too broad.
kara swisher
I think you’d do an excellent job with him. I think he is one of the most dangerous people on the planet.
jake tapper
But can I just say something? The other thing about the Murdochs, just Lachlan and Rupert, is they are in glasshouses, right? They have their own lives and all that stuff and I don’t cover it. It’s not my business. I could do a whole show about how evil, I could do it every day, about how evil Rupert Murdoch is. And I’m sure, by the way, it would boost my ratings. But that’s not what my gig is.
kara swisher
So what is your what is your next book on?
jake tapper
The third book in the series will be in the ‘70s and it will be the son, Charlie and Margaret will also be in the book. We got the Reagan era after that if people keep reading them. Reagan era after that and then the Clinton years after that. And then the Bush years.
kara swisher
And then old man Jake Tapper will be writing about Trump.
jake tapper
Right. By then maybe he’ll be heroic, he’ll be the heroic character.
kara swisher
Oh, I don’t think so, Jake. I’m going to give you that.
jake tapper
President McCarthy will pass a law.
kara swisher
President Marjorie Greene, perhaps.
jake tapper
Right. Exactly.
kara swisher
Put that in your pipe and smoke it.
jake tapper
That’s good.
kara swisher
OK, but it doesn’t matter because you’ll be working for Apple or TikTok news. So, there you have it. That’s how it’s going to go. They’re going to buy Jake Tapper, just so you know.
jake tapper
All right.
kara swisher
OK, OK.
jake tapper
I’m just waiting for, what’s the offer? That’s the question.
kara swisherBy the time I reached early adulthood, English had become my dominant language and made a sprawling home in my brain, forcing Farsi into a tiny corner, so much so it worried me at times. To lose that connection, or have it weaken, felt devastating. But as it turns out, a language doesn’t just slip out of your mind. In fact, in a 2014 study, researchers found that our mother tongue creates neural patterns on our infant brains that stay with us even if we don’t use the language.
Several years ago, after I fell asleep during the day — an occurrence as rare as a solar eclipse — and woke up confused, I asked my husband what time it was. “Saat chande?” I said in Farsi, a language of which he only understands a few words. He was baffled. Flustered, I repeated, “Saat chande?” In that confused moment between sleep and wakefulness, I resorted to the language that makes me feel safe, the one that has literally etched patterns in my brain.
My parents are both from an area in western Iran. People from that region of Lorestan Province speak a dialect. Some words and phrases are different from the equivalent in Farsi, at times funnier, sharper, tangier. I enjoy these words and associate them with laughter and the smell of tea, with summers at my grandmother’s house.
Because I left Iran before I was 10, I forget that not all Iranians know those words. At times, I use them with Iranian friends here in New York. I’ve said the word “gamelas” to signify a lazy or incompetent person — but I can’t translate it. It’s more than just lazy; it’s a feeling, really, weighed by cultural context. I start laughing, because it’s a funny word. But my friends look at me with inquisitive eyes, waiting for a translation of what to me is our mother tongue. But it’s not. It’s my mother tongue, concentric circles of English, Farsi and a Borujerdi dialect of Luri (in which I’m not even close to fluent) that center in to some unique amalgamation of all those things, the language of my family, population five. Now four. A language that will go extinct.
That’s the thing with languages. Though we can give each a name, no two people really speak the same one. But in a quest to feel understood, we hold on to what we presume is a common one like a life raft in a sea of expressions, often orphaning old words and sayings to make room for new ones. And as the old float farther out, they become as unfamiliar and foreign to us as Tehran is to me now. They are our “ghorbooni,” the victims of the sacrifice, what we give up in order to be recognized, to expand. As if I had to give up Farsi to gain all this English.
But though the words might disappear, or occupy a smaller parcel of our minds, they continue to lurk in our unconscious brain, and the feelings, well, “gamelas,” will always make me laugh, even if I don’t quite remember why.
Sara Goudarzi (@saragoud) is a writer and poet.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.When I was in my early 20s, I was in an abusive relationship with another woman. Soon after it ended, I did what I always did when I was heartbroken: I looked for art that spoke to my experience. I was surprised to find shockingly few memoirs of domestic violence or verbal, psychological and emotional abuse in queer relationships. So I wrote into that silence: a memoir, “In the Dream House,” which describes that relationship and my struggle to leave it.
This year, a parent in Leander, Texas — livid that “In the Dream House” appeared on high school classes’ recommended reading lists — took a pink strap-on dildo to a school board meeting. Voice trembling with disgust, she read excerpts from my book — including one where I referred to a dildo, inspiring the prop — before arguing that letting a student read my book could be considered child abuse.
She and the other parents like her demanded the removal of my book and several others from district reading lists for high school English class book clubs, from which students were allowed to select one of 15 titles. The school board ultimately decided to remove a number of books, including “V for Vendetta” and a graphic novel version of “The Handmaid’s Tale,” and is currently considering whether it should remove more, including mine.
I have teamed up with Margaret Atwood, Jodi Picoult, Jacqueline Woodson and many other authors whose works have been targeted for removal from class reading lists in Leander. In conjunction with PEN America, a group that promotes free literary expression, we wrote a letter to the school district demanding that our books remain available to students. While our books may contain passages that are potentially uncomfortable, challenging or even offensive, exposure to our books is vital to expanding minds, affirming experiences, creating appreciation for the arts and building empathy — in short, respecting the adults that the students in Leander, Texas, will soon become.So many investigations, people.
“This is a continuation of the greatest Witch Hunt in American history,” Donald Trump said, complaining about the multiple probes into his business practices.
That was in an online statement practically no one seems to have read. Truly, of all the former president’s problems, his greatest woe has to be that Twitter ban. As The Washington Post cruelly reported, the new website he’s put up as a replacement has “attracted fewer estimated visitors than the pet-adoption service Petfinder and the recipe site Delish.”
Well, yeah. Take your pick: a new puppy, a new pasta recipe or a new post-presidential whine.
But Trump is certainly getting a lot of attention on the non-fan front. Here in New York he just lost an 18-month battle to keep the Manhattan district attorney from peeping at his financial records. As we all know, Trump is an absolute shrinking violet when it comes to his tax returns, and he made two trips to the Supreme Court trying to keep them out of the hands of anybody with the power of subpoena.
In Georgia, prosecutors are investigating Trump’s postelection call to Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. You’ll remember the one in which he asked Raffensperger to “find” him some more votes. It does seem possible the Donald is going to spend the rest of his life struggling to stay out of jail, doesn’t it?NAIROBI, Kenya — When Iman Elman decided to enlist in the Somali National Army in 2011, the officer distributing uniforms gave her one shirt and two pairs of pants. Puzzled, Ms. Elman asked about the missing shirt. There was none, he said. The extra set of pants was provided for her to sew into a skirt.
Ms. Elman, who was born into a family of prominent peace and human rights activists in the Somali capital of Mogadishu but grew up in Canada, was 19 at the time and wanted to join the front lines in the country’s fight against the terror group Al Shabab. A skirt was not going to do, she thought, and politely declined the second pair of pants.
The incident, she said, served as a reminder not only of the challenges awaiting her in the patriarchal world of the Somali military but also of the traditional, conservative norms she would have to overcome.
“We still have a long way to go,” Ms. Elman remembered thinking at the time.
Almost a decade later, she is now Lt. Col. Elman, having risen from foot soldier and captain, and is in charge of the army’s planning and strategy — the only female department head and one of the highest ranking women in the Somali military.When Mr. Trump began the withdrawal of the U.S. from the World Health Organization because he believed that it was shielding China from legitimate scrutiny of its role in creating the pandemic and endangering the world, the same media criticized Mr. Trump, not the W.H.O. and China. Mr. Biden called the withdrawal wrongheaded.
Now that President Biden has ordered intelligence agencies to urgently investigate and report its findings on the origin of the virus and to explore whether it might have accidentally escaped from the Wuhan lab, it’s front-page news. Imagine that. The nation can never truly be united until the media gets its act together and plays the news straight on behalf of all Americans.
Dennis L. Breo
New Smyrna Beach, Fla.
To the Editor:
The United States should stop insisting that China allow outside investigations into the origin of the coronavirus. Whether the virus was transmitted through animals or escaped from the virology laboratory in Wuhan is now of little importance. We — and the Chinese — know that both are very possible and that we must work hard, now and in the future, to prevent each of these risks to our peoples.
Scientists in China and around the world have been cooperating amazingly and productively. We need this to continue. Outside efforts to look for possible Chinese laboratory errors are seen as an attack on Chinese sovereignty and credibility, and further poison U.S.-Chinese relations.
The worst case is that the Wuhan laboratory has been working to create bioweapons. Irritating the Chinese government is not the way to stop this.
Let us instead strive to bring this coronavirus under control, to increase efforts to prevent the spread of new pathogens from animals and laboratories, and, above all, to improve relations between China and the United States.
Paul Sorum
Jamaica Plain, Mass.
The writer is emeritus professor of internal medicine and pediatrics at Albany Medical College.I’m a vegan, but I’m also a realist. There’s no chance humanity is going to give up meat, en masse, anytime soon. That said, we can’t just wish away the risks of industrial animal agriculture. If we don’t end this system, soon, terrible things will happen to us and to the planet. Terrible things are already happening.
So this is going to be a column about finding a way to work with humanity’s growing appetite for meat rather than against it. All we need to do is replace the animals, or at least a lot of them. Technologically, we’re closer to that than you might think. What we need is for government to put money and muscle behind the project — just as it’s doing for electric cars and weatherized homes and renewable energy — so that the future happens fast enough to save the present. This is the hole in the American Jobs Plan, and it wouldn’t take much money, just a bit of vision, to fill.
Let me first lay out the urgency of the task and the rewards we could reap. As best we can tell, the novel coronavirus jumped from bats, to some other animal, to humans, with the locus of infection being a Chinese meat market. There’s nothing unusual about that. Swine flus — yes, plural — jump from pigs to humans. Avian flus jump from birds to humans. Ebola most likely came from monkeys. “Preventing the Next Pandemic,” a report by the United Nations Environment Program, estimates that 75 percent of the new infectious diseases that threaten humans come from animals.
The U.N. report goes on to name the seven major drivers of these emerging animal-to-human diseases. First is the increasing demand for animal protein. As populations get richer, they eat more meat. Since 1961, global meat production has more than quadrupled, to more than 340 million tons from 71 million tons. Americans are among the top meat consumers in the world: In 2018, each of us ate, on average, 222 pounds of red meat and chicken. Consumption in most other countries is far lower, but rising. In China, for instance, per capita meat consumption has more than doubled since 1990.Before Xinjiang, there was Tibet. Repressive policies tested there between 2012 and 2016 were then applied to the Uighurs and other ethnic minorities in northwestern China: entire cities covered in surveillance cameras, ubiquitous neighborhood police stations, residents made to report on one another.
Now that process also works the other way around. Xinjiang’s coercive labor program — which includes mandatory training for farmers and herders in centralized vocational facilities and their reassignment to state-assigned jobs, some far away — is being applied to Tibet. (Not the internment camps, though.)
Call this a feedback loop of forcible assimilation. It certainly is evidence of the scale of Beijing’s ruthless campaign to suppress cultural and ethnic differences — and not just in Tibet and Xinjiang.
I analyzed more than 100 policy papers and documents from the Tibetan authorities and state-media reports for a study published with the Jamestown Foundation this week. Photos show Tibetans training, wearing fatigues. Official documents outline how Beijing is rolling out for them a militarized labor program much like the one in place in Xinjiang: Tibetan nomads and farmers are being rounded up for military-style classes and taught work discipline, “gratitude” for the Chinese Communist Party and Chinese-language skills.That’s why voluntary approaches remain our best strategy right now. For example, hospitals and other health care facilities can use an “opt out” system, in which all unvaccinated staff members are automatically given appointments and can opt out if they decide to. Incentive programs like giving people time off, money or gifts can also help. Another approach is to tell health care workers that they either have to get vaccinated or agree to routine testing.
For those who regularly interact with health workers who are hesitant to get vaccinated, there’s a lot we can do as colleagues. Just asking questions like, “The last year has been really hard for all of us. Do you want to talk about your experience and what you think about the Covid-19 vaccine?” can go a long way.
The other night, I asked my home health aide who is not yet vaccinated if she wanted to share any concerns. She mentioned her worries about serious allergic reactions. After validating her concerns, I said that such reactions are rare, comparable with those from other vaccines, and are treatable.
Another aide recently mentioned to me that the Johnson & Johnson vaccine had lower reported effectiveness and therefore didn’t seem worth getting. I responded that all current Covid-19 vaccines are extremely effective in preventing hospitalizations and death.
A common myth I hear among health workers in the hospitals where I work is that because many of them were infected with Covid-19, they don’t need to get the vaccine. In this situation I let people know that even those who were infected should get vaccinated, since protection conferred by infection is variable and may wane over time. Vaccines offer more durable, reliable and better protection against variants.
These are not one-time conversations. The dialogue has to be continuing and consistent. There hasn’t been one specific moment that felt like a breakthrough in my conversations with the health aides at home or with my colleagues at work. I don’t know what ultimately changed their mind. But I know these conversations matter. Just because some people say they don’t want to get vaccinated now, it doesn’t mean they won’t do so later. And I’m not willing to give up.The originality that Davis brought to the notes genre no doubt played a role in her Grammy breakthrough. But it did not open the floodgates to other women writing liners, an ongoing inequity that has largely gone unnoticed in a relatively obscure category. Liner notes emerged in full in the mid-1950s with the rise of the 33 ⅓ disc as a form of advertising. They were printed on the sleeve — the very “lining” of the record — and transformed in the decades that followed into a showcase for sometimes masterful critical profiles of an artist’s ambition; meditations on the occasion for the album; explorations of the making of the record; or essays on the vision of the work as a whole.
In the post-World War II “golden age” of jazz music criticism, figures like Nat Hentoff, Ralph J. Gleason, Leonard Feather and Ira Gitler generated prodigious bodies of notes that offer vivid takes on the modern jazz canon. The rise of rock music criticism produced its own class of writers — the crossover figure Gleason (a founder of Rolling Stone), Greil Marcus, Robert Christgau and Lester Bangs — who wrote notes that captured the intensity and convictions of their trademark prose. But the ’60s and ’70s also saw artists themselves (John Coltrane, Bob Dylan, Sun Ra and Frank Zappa, among them) writing about or alongside of their own releases, dropping so-called Easter eggs here and there for their most obsessive fans.
The Grammys’ characteristic cultural conservatism has always held its grip on the notes category. Nominations skewed heavily in the early years toward detailed, well-tailored essays by critics and scholars who wrote accompaniments for jazz, classical and roots Americana recordings. And across time, “prestige” and commemorative releases have been favored — especially boomer nostalgia boxed sets and landmark reissues that speak to the longstanding legacies of musical giants (Louis Armstrong, Billie Holiday, Miles Davis, Frank Sinatra, Thelonious Monk, Sam Cooke, Charlie Parker); game-changing labels (Paramount, Stax); and historical collections (minstrel show music archives, folk anthologies, regional music compilations).
Davis’s essay, “Aretha Franklin, Do Right Diva,” remains a standout in this list of Grammy winners. Written from the vantage point of a Black feminist critic, her notes effortlessly navigate the many dimensions of Franklin’s impact as an artist — encompassing the scale of her legacy, the socio-historic import of her Atlantic recordings and her astonishing aesthetic innovations, all conveyed with the kind of sincerity and intelligence of feeling akin to Aretha’s singing.Ms. McQueen also wants to preserve her kids from the kind of traditional education that, she says, sapped her own self-assurance. “If you’re taking orders all the time, your confidence is based on what someone else says, not what you say. That’s one of the main reasons I decided I could do this. I didn’t want them to turn out like me,” she said. “It has taken me a lot of unlearning to trust myself.”
Covid-19 has thrown families back on their own resources, and many parents and children have had to learn to trust themselves.
“The pandemic has tremendously increased my visibility, and people’s interest in self-directed education,” Akilah Richards, a podcaster, author and unschooling mother of two in the Atlanta area, told me. “Now you’re at home, you’re wanting your kid to do the thing you wanted to believe they were doing in school: being super attentive to their lessons because they’re motivated, and not because someone was lording over them. But now you can’t get them to finish their packet because you have work too, so what does it look like for young people to feel a sense of connection to what they’re supposed to learn?”
Education reformers have been asking that question since at least the 19th century. When the German educator Friedrich Froebel invented kindergarten in the 1830s, he stressed the educational value of games and free play. Progressive reformers like Maria Montessori and John Dewey pushed for a more “child centered” approach to education that stressed experience and experimentation over rote memorization. African-American activists assailed mainstream schools for belittling students of color. In 1933, the historian Carter Woodson called the “crusade” against inferior Black schools and textbooks full of white supremacist propaganda “much more important than the anti-lynching movement, because there would be no lynching if it did not start in the schoolroom.”
By the 1960s, progressives’ insights had become (and largely remain) mainstream. But a new generation of activists denounced traditional schools as “prisons” whose origins lay in capitalists’ desire for educated and obedient workers, and whose tyrannies demanded a new civil rights revolution.
Local Black and Indigenous communities organized independent ethnocentric schools. Other reformers, inspired by humanistic psychology’s rosy vision of every person’s capacity for free will and self-actualization, called for loosely supervised “free schools” and even the abolition of schools altogether. (They often sidestepped the overwhelming social necessity of public schools to not only educate, but also provide child care and healthy food for millions of children.)
In 1968 the Brazilian scholar Paulo Freire warned in his book “Pedagogy of the Oppressed” that “education as the exercise of domination stimulates the credulity of students, with the ideological intent (often not perceived by educators) of indoctrinating them to adapt to the world of oppression.”Fear insists that life is a zero-sum game. Love knows that there is enough, and to spare. Fear both proclaims and begets scarcity. Love invites and welcomes abundance.
So I became increasingly concerned during the 2016 election cycle when a man who built his candidacy on a platform of fear — of immigrants, Muslims, refugees and others — inexplicably became not only the nominee of the party I had belonged to my entire life, but also president. This was a man who proclaimed, “Real power is, I don’t even want to use the word, fear.”
With Donald Trump’s election, I knew I could not remain silent. I in no way considered myself an activist. But in January 2017, just after the inauguration, I opened my computer and worked late into the night setting up a nonpartisan Facebook group for myself and a few like-minded friends. I wanted to create a space where we could discuss ways in which we might join forces to counterbalance the fear and to call for decency, compassion and ethics in our government. We called ourselves Mormon Women for Ethical Government.
Immediately, friends began adding friends who added friends who added friends. Within just a few weeks, we had over 4,000 members, women from all across the political spectrum, Mormons and non-Mormons alike. Clearly, we had hit a nerve. There were thousands of other women of faith, like myself, who felt compelled to act — to push back against fear and hate and take a stand for love.
And so, our little group continued to grow. We incorporated as a 501(c)4 nonprofit organization, established chapters in nearly every state, lobbied for the marginalized in Washington and state capitals, organized rallies at the southern border and helped register over 20,000 voters.
Our motto: We will not be complicit by being complacent. We believe that Jesus really meant it when he said that we should love our neighbors — meaning everyone, as the parable of the good Samaritan makes clear — and care for the poor, the sick, the homeless, the vulnerable. This is the calling of all Christians. We have been called to love.
We have our work cut out for us. In fact, the ante has just been raised in this conflict between fear and love.The same way, a story about Dorothy Dandridge and a pool just fits: As the urban legend goes, the movie star was visiting a hotel in Las Vegas in the 1950s, and she dipped a single toe into the all-white swimming pool. This so disgusted the hotel’s management that they drained the entire thing. This story, which was also depicted in the HBO biopic about her life, has never actually been confirmed. But to anyone familiar with the history of America’s relationship with its Black citizens, the anecdote is believable. Maybe it ain’t true, but it also ain’t exactly a lie.
To question whether this bottomless skepticism is justified is like asking whether a cow has cause to be wary of butchers. From redlining and gerrymandering to the Tuskegee experiment and Cointelpro, the proven conspiracies against Black Americans are so devious, so deep and so absurd that they blast open pathways for true-sounding non-truths to enter, too.
The terrible spoken word poems I wrote in college (“We’ll never get justice, because justice for just-us just-aint-for-us”) habitually referenced the so-called Willie Lynch letter — an instruction manual for controlling Black slaves that I, along with many others, believed was written by a slave owner in 1712 and contained deep insights into modern race relations. The truth: Willie Lynch never existed and the document was forged. I believed that the government conspired to track my thoughts and movements — as if my flaccid stanzas and banded collar Wilsons Leather biker jackets were a threat to the state. I even once allowed myself to entertain an argument that the natural color of milk is not white, but brown. (Don’t ask.)
The term “hotep” has become a catchall among Black people to describe other Black people who still believe some of these easily debunked stories — but the reality is that most of us have some hotep in us. And not because we don’t know how America really works, but because we know too much. The lack of trust in our nation’s systems and structures is a force field; a bulwark shielding us from the lie of the American dream. And nowhere is this skepticism more justified than with the institution of medicine.
I don’t trust doctors, nurses, physician assistants, hospitals, emergency rooms, waiting rooms, surgeries, prescriptions, X-rays, MRIs, medical bills, insurance companies or even the food from hospital cafeterias. My awareness of the pronounced racial disparities in our health care system strips me of any confidence I would have otherwise had in it. As critics of a recent Saturday Night Live skit suggesting that Black people are illogically set against getting vaccinated pointed out, the vaccine hesitancy isn’t due to some uniquely Black pathology. It’s a direct response to centuries of anecdote, experience and data. (Also, the demographic among the least likely to get a vaccine? White evangelicals.)On the premiere episode of her daytime talk show in 2003, Ellen DeGeneres performed her very first monologue with more than a hint of nervousness in her voice. As she explained to an enthusiastic studio audience what a “mark” was and walked through the set of her new show (and then intentionally missed her mark), her palpable excitement made her instantly likable.
“This is my first applause break. My first laugh,” she marveled. She went on to explain that the show, its staff and its audience are “like a family.”
That disarming tone and Everywoman vibe — just as starstruck by her celebrity guests as we might be — helped turn Ms. DeGeneres into a household name with a daytime hit that has lasted nearly two decades. Her showcasing of regular people doing remarkable things was the strongest asset: From yodeling kids to star teachers, Ms. DeGeneres understood that the secret to her success was becoming a vehicle for everyday American exceptionalism.
But as her own fame and fortune grew, and stories emerged about her less friendly reputation behind the scenes, Ms. DeGeneres’s relatability began to look like a performance.They were outspoken, confident and indifferent to the silent or explicit rules of gender around them, often dressing and acting “like boys.” They stood in stark contrast to the ingénues and highly feminine characters girls and women were often restricted to. For me and many Gen X girls (and boys), the tomboys of the 1970s and '80s expanded the possibilities of what girlhood could look like. I have met only one woman who liked Blair better than Jo.
These were often my favorite characters, living examples of the feminist zeitgeist that told me I did not have to be feminine to be female: I could, and maybe should, dress and act like boys and have access to their domains. In her book “Pink and Blue: Telling the Boys From the Girls in America,” the historian Jo B. Paoletti points to Sears catalogs in the 1970s that displayed size conversion charts so girls could shop more easily in the boys’ section. During that same period, Title IX mandated that girls have parity with boys in all aspects of federally funded education.
But this kind of tomboy began to recede in the mid-1980s. Hostility to feminism emerged in that decade, with the rise of the New Right. This was followed by the pink-hued “Girl Power” of the 1990s, which moved away from the more masculine-presenting tomboy toward an image that seemed to comfort the male gaze. Jo gave way to Sporty Spice, Xena, Buffy — coifed, petal-lipped and sometimes baring midriff — with the message that one didn’t need to sacrifice femininity to have power.
It was an understandable counter to the somewhat limiting message of the earlier tomboy era, which implied that while masculinity was good for boys and girls, femininity was bad for both. But it also edged out a certain kind of acceptable masculinity in young girls, and came with its own confinements — namely the idea that girls could be strong, so long as they were also pretty.Was last summer a vision of equality to come for the publishing industry? Or a flash in the pan?
Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah had just turned 26 when he got the call in 2017 that Mariner Books wanted to publish his short-story collection, “Friday Black.”
Mr. Adjei-Brenyah suspected that the contract he signed — a $10,000 advance for “Friday Black” and $40,000 for an unfinished second book — wasn’t ideal. But his father had cancer and the money provided a modicum of security.
Mr. Adjei-Brenyah’s uneasiness over his book deal became more acute last summer. Using the hashtag #PublishingPaidMe, writers had begun to share their advances on Twitter with the goal of exposing racial pay disparities in publishing. Some white authors disclosed that they had been paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for their debut books.
Mr. Adjei-Brenyah wanted to share his contract. But he knew that doing so could make his publisher look bad and hurt his career. “It’s scary when it’s your life,” he said.
Reticence gave way to action, though, when he thought about Jesmyn Ward’s tweet about how she “fought and fought” for a $100,000 advance, even after one of her novels won a National Book Award.
Mr. Adjei-Brenyah started to type.
As #PublishingPaidMe spread online, more than a thousand people in the publishing industry signed up for a day of action to support the Black community.
Publishing executives responded by releasing statements expressing support for racial justice, announcing antiracism training and promising to put out more books by writers of color. If they follow through, last summer’s activism could diversify the range of voices that American readers encounter for years to come.
Statements released by publishers on social media last summer condemning racism.
But measuring progress isn’t easy, and requires a baseline to compare against: How many current authors are people of color? As far as we could tell, that data didn’t exist.
So we set out to collect it. First, we gathered a list of English-language fiction books published between 1950 and 2018. That list came from WorldCat, a global catalog of library collections. We wanted to focus on books that were widely read, so we limited our analysis to titles that were held by at least 10 libraries and for which we could find digital editions.
We also constrained our search to books released by some of the most prolific publishing houses during the period of our analysis: Simon & Schuster, Penguin Random House, Doubleday (a major publisher before it merged with Random House in 1998), HarperCollins and Macmillan. After all that we were left with a dataset containing 8,004 books, written by 4,010 authors.
To identify those authors’ races and ethnicities, we worked alongside three research assistants, reading through biographies, interviews and social media posts. Each author was reviewed independently by two researchers. If the team couldn’t come to an agreement about an author’s race, or there simply wasn’t enough information to feel confident, we omitted those authors’ books from our analysis. By the end, we had identified the race or ethnicity of 3,471 authors.
We guessed that most of the authors would be white, but we were shocked by the extent of the inequality once we analyzed the data. Of the 7,124 books for which we identified the author’s race, 95 percent were written by white people.
Author diversity at major publishing houses has increased in recent years, but white writers still dominate. Non-Hispanic white people account for 60 percent of the U.S. population; in 2018, they wrote 89 percent of the books in our sample.
Want your book published? It helps to be white. 100% of fiction books published Just 11% of books in 2018 were written by people of color 89% were written by white writers 2010 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 100% of fiction books published Just 11% of books in 2018 were written by people of color 89% were written by white writers 2010 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 100% of fiction books published Just 11% of books in 2018 were written by people of color 89% were written by white writers 2010 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 Note: Among a sample of more than 7,000 books published by Simon & Schuster, Penguin Random House, Doubleday, HarperCollins and Macmillan. · Source: “Redlining Culture” by Richard Jean So
This broad imbalance is likely linked to the people who work in publishing. The heads of the “big five” publishing houses (soon, perhaps, to become the “big four”) are white. So are 85 percent of the people who acquire and edit books, according to a 2019 survey.
“There’s a correlation between the number of people of color who work in publishing and the number of books that are published by authors of color,” said Tracy Sherrod, the editorial director of Amistad, an imprint of HarperCollins that is focused on Black literature.
That correlation is visible in our data, exemplified by Toni Morrison’s career as an editor at Random House from 1967 to 1983. Random House’s first female Black editor, Ms. Morrison championed writers such as Toni Cade Bambara, Henry Dumas and Gayl Jones. During her tenure, 3.3 percent of the 806 books published by Random House in our data were written by Black authors.
The number of Black authors dropped sharply at Random House after Ms. Morrison left. Of the 512 books published by Random House between 1984 and 1990 in our data, just two were written by Black authors: Ms. Morrison’s “Beloved” (through Knopf, which was owned by Random House) and “Sarah Phillips,” by Andrea Lee.
(Random House published 12 books during this period by non-Black writers of color such as Maxine Hong Kingston and Michael Ondaatje, according to our data. In a response to our analysis, Random House pointed out that it was the longtime publisher of Maya Angelou, whose autobiography “All God’s Children Need Traveling Shoes” was released in 1986; because it is a work of nonfiction, it is not included in our statistics.)
In 1967, the same year that Ms. Morrison joined Random House, Marie Dutton Brown started as an intern at Doubleday and eventually rose to the rank of senior editor. Now a literary agent, Ms. Brown said that she witnessed how ephemeral gains for Black writers can be.
“Black life and Black culture are rediscovered every 10 to 15 years,” said Ms. Brown. “Publishing reflects that.”
“Many white editors are not exposed to Black life beyond the headlines,” said Ms. Brown, pictured here at her desk at Doubleday in 1976. Courtesy Marie Dutton Brown
Ms. Brown attributed the fluctuation in publishers’ support for Black writers to the news cycle, which periodically directs the nation’s attention to acts of brutality against Black people. Publishers’ interest in amplifying Black voices wanes as media coverage peters out because “many white editors are not exposed to Black life beyond the headlines,” Ms. Brown said.
The lack of diversity among authors might be obscured by a small number of high-profile nonfiction books written by athletes, celebrities and politicians of color, according to Ms. Brown. “It gives the appearance that there are a lot of Black books published,” while publishers’ less famous “mid-list” authors are overwhelmingly white, she said.
Literary prizes may also make publishing appear more diverse than it actually is. Over the past decade, more than half of the 10 most recent books that were awarded the National Book Award for fiction were written by people of color; Colson Whitehead has won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction twice in the past four years.
Look at the books that appeared on The New York Times’s best-seller list for fiction, though, and a different picture emerges: Only 22 of the 220 books on the list this year were written by people of color.
L.L. McKinney, an author of young-adult novels who started the #PublishingPaidMe hashtag, wasn’t surprised by the statistics on how few Black authors have been published relative to white authors.
“I’ve heard things like, ‘We already have our Black girl book for the year,’” said Ms. McKinney. She also remembered comments suggesting books wouldn’t sell well if they had a Black person on the cover.
In a 1950 essay titled “What White Publishers Won’t Print,” Zora Neale Hurston identified the chicken-or-egg dilemma at the heart of publishers’ conservatism. White people, she wrote, cannot conceive of Black people outside of racial stereotypes. And because publishers want to sell books, they publish stories that conform to those stereotypes, reinforcing white readers’ expectations and appetites.
“It’s amusing to me when publishers say that they follow the market,” said Ms. McKinney. “They’re doing it because of tradition. And the tradition is racism.”
Michael Strother, a former editor at Simon & Schuster, remembers the meeting in 2016 when he realized how limited his white colleagues’ imaginations were when it came to Black authors. Mr. Strother was trying to persuade executives to authorize a large bid for “The Hate U Give,” Angie Thomas’s young-adult novel about the fallout from a police shooting.
Co-workers in the meeting praised the book; others teared up as they discussed its importance. “It was not only a good book, but a marketable book and an important book,” Mr. Strother said. “It should have been an easy yes.”
Some of Mr. Strother’s white colleagues were hesitant, though. One asked, “Do we need Angie Thomas if we have Jason Reynolds?” (Mr. Reynolds is another Black author of young-adult novels.)
“Their books are not similar at all except they both have Black characters,” said Mr. Strother, who is now a law student at New York University.
Mr. Strother, whose account of the meeting was corroborated by one other person who was present, said he was authorized to bid far less than what he knew he would need to win the auction. Since it was published by Balzer + Bray, an imprint of HarperCollins, in 2017, “The Hate U Give” has spent 196 weeks on the Times young-adult best-seller list.
Asked to comment on the acquisitions meeting, Simon & Schuster provided the following statement: “At Simon & Schuster Children’s Publishing, we are proud of our long and continuing history of publishing Black voices. While we typically do not comment on the acquisition process, each potential acquisition is considered based on its own merits. In 2016 we made a six-figure bid for Angie Thomas’s debut novel ‘The Hate U Give’ (plus a follow-up novel) in a heated auction between multiple publishers and the book eventually went to another publisher.”
A few days after Mr. Adjei-Brenyah tweeted his book deal, he received a message from his agent: Mariner Books wanted to restructure his contract and pay him “a lot more” for his second book.
Mr. Adjei-Brenyah viewed his publisher’s reaction to his tweet as a small step toward dismantling decades of racism in publishing. “I’ve been growing into my courage,” he said. “Now I have to carry that energy forward.”
A number of signs indicate that publishers are also carrying forward the energy from the summer’s protests.
In October, Hachette Book Group announced the creation of Legacy Lit, one of several imprints started this year that are devoted to publishing books by writers of color. Krishan Trotman, who will lead the imprint, said she’s seen waves of support for Black authors come and go, but that Legacy Lit represents a real commitment to diversity by Hachette.
“There will be a huge boom of books — all of a sudden Black women are hot or urban fiction is hot — and then there will be a backslide,” said Ms. Trotman. “That’s why we need these imprints. They’ll be here even after all the hoopla dies down.”
Krishan Trotman will lead the Legacy Lit, the first imprint dedicated to publishing books by people of color at Hachette Book Group. Simbarashe Cha for The New York Times
Along with Dana Canedy at Simon & Schuster and Lisa Lucas at Pantheon and Schocken Books, Ms. Trotman is one of several Black women who were named to senior publishing jobs this year. Like Ms. Morrison 50 years ago, they may be able to clear the way for more writers of color to flourish.
The bottom rungs of publishing are also a source of hope. When Ms. Brown started at Doubleday in 1967, she was the only Black intern in her year’s cohort. In 2019, almost half of all publishing interns identified as people of color.
Whether those interns can grow into careers like Ms. Trotman’s or Ms. Brown’s will depend on publishers’ continued willingness to hire, promote and listen to people who they have historically sidelined. Our data suggests that progress toward diversity can be as short-lived as a single editor’s tenure.
“The presence of Black editors is really important,” said Ms. Brown. “But you need more than one at the table.”It fortified me to get to know and work with Christine Darden, Patricia Cowings and other women scientists, engineers and mathematicians of all ethnicities who worked at NASA centers throughout the nation.
I am so pleased the book and movie “Hidden Figures” allowed the world to meet and celebrate Katherine Johnson and her colleagues.
Katherine Johnson was a revelation. An inspiration. But she was not a “one-off” to be put on a shelf and admired for her singular genius. She was representative of the deep well of talent and potential that is so often buried by lack of opportunity, access, exposure and expectation for women and particularly women of color in science and technical fields.
She was a beacon who heralded the contributions made by women that were hidden and stymied by the deep institutional and societal bias that accredits achievements to white men, deemed by society to be the unique holders of genius.
Johnson today is a balm for the discomfort that arises when you stand up in a crowd — a crowd that doubts your capabilities due only to your gender or race — and press a point, disagree with a widely held premise or challenge the sugar coating of facts meant to make the powerful feel better while disregarding the less powerful, who need the truth revealed.David was uniquely able to draw the connections between the human and historical, the personal and political, pulling on the seamless thread that is the human condition. He adopted language and techniques that appeared simple — often reducing politically significant and complicated matters to a choice faced by an individual — but were actually rather complex. With his words, the dark recesses of our modern world, and the choices we face, touched readers in a manner they — we — felt to be deeply personal.
David got his start in the world of espionage; he would later draw on the personal experience of working for the intelligence services in Germany. His third novel, “The Spy Who Came In From the Cold,” was his first best seller. It was a simple tale of a British agent using dubious means to promote supposedly democratic values. “Are you a spy,” another protagonist would be asked two decades later, in “A Perfect Spy,” or “merely a criminal?”
Distrust was a fine thing for us, the lawyer and skeptical former spook. Our friendship soon grew beyond our early gulf war conversations. One day, he asked if I might be willing to review a draft of his next book; it was a means of peering more deeply into his characters, this time lawyers. He wanted a check on fashion and speech. This became a joyful routine, David at my front door, arms thrust forward with the text of a new book.
I became a different type of reader, immersed in his style and forensic attention to particulars, recognizing how matters of structure and form were harnessed to bring the reader to the heart of a dilemma, as yet another decent human called upon to act with unspeakable duplicity. The lens usually had something to do with spies, but not always, and over the years he went back and forth in time. In 2017, he even brought back George Smiley, the most famous of his characters, in “A Legacy of Spies." Fifty-six years after his first appearance, Smiley was called upon to address the decline of Britain and the mendacities of Brexit.
Over time, my own writing on the origins of genocide and other international crimes in the years of the Nuremberg trial connected unexpectedly to matters of espionage. Looking into the murky world of the Nazi escape route from Europe to South America, known as the ratline, I turned to my neighbor for insights into the postwar years. I wanted to understand how could it possibly be that senior SS officers came to be recruited by the Americans, so soon after the war’s end.South Carolina last month became the latest state to pass a so-called heartbeat ban, criminalizing abortion after fetal cardiac activity or a heartbeat is detected, typically between six and eight weeks into a pregnancy. A federal court promptly blocked the law from taking effect, underscoring the concerns of some abortion opponents that the approach was too extreme and would be counterproductive.
Until several years ago, these early abortion bans struck many, even some red state lawmakers, the same way. But in 2019, state legislatures passed a wave of fetal heartbeat bills. About a dozen states, including South Carolina, have sought to put such a law on their books but have been blocked by the courts. At the moment, the Supreme Court’s case law rules out any ban before viability, the point at which survival is possible outside the womb.
That 2019 push by abortion absolutists, two years into the Trump presidency, was also a push against a more incremental approach that had dominated the anti-abortion effort. The National Right to Life Committee, a giant in the movement, had warned the heartbeat campaign would backfire at the Supreme Court. Many conservatives thought it went too far.
Not anymore. Because the South Carolina law made exceptions for pregnancies resulting from rape and incest, Republican lawmakers who are relatively moderate voted for the ban. The National Right to Life Committee seems to be turning full circle and now provides information about heartbeat bills.One day, after a particularly agonizing morning, I called my mom and asked her if she thought I was autistic. Her answer was an unequivocal yes. I went to the doctor — and was told I was probably autistic, but that the waiting list was so many years long that there was no point trying. (In Britain, where I live, unless you can afford to pursue a diagnosis privately, you have to wait until the National Health Service, which is overstretched and underfunded, can find time for you.) I got fired instead.
Two years later, I accepted another office job. I found myself again overwhelmed and failing to work within the structures everyone else seemed to thrive under. So again I pursued a diagnosis, hoping for help. I was told that unless I was a danger to myself, the support was not there. It was ironic: I had been a prolific self-harmer when I was younger, but because I had overcome those impulses, I couldn’t get the support I needed.
When lockdown hit, I found myself taking to loneliness with an ease I half-anticipated: no more public transport, stores or awkward socializing. But I knew how hard it would be to come out the other side, and I wanted to be able to explain why. I had spoken to a psychiatrist about a private diagnosis before; now in a slightly better position, I committed to the expense of a diagnosis. She and a colleague spent several hours assessing me over three days. The result was clear.
I expected to be ambivalent, but I wasn’t: I was euphoric. I told everyone. I was the same person I was the day before, the same person I’d always been, but with the terminology to explain myself and to find a community. After pursuing it for five years, the diagnosis gave me certainty, solidity and the strength to articulate my needs to others. I looked back on the past anew, seeing my own behavior through a softer lens and pinpointing where others could have been kinder. I wished only that I hadn’t lost so much of my life hating myself.
People often emphasize how difficult life is for autistic people. And that’s true: From the moment I wake up (late), every task I do — making phone calls, taking public transport, eating and socializing — feels more and more difficult. It’s like a video game with no end goal but to stay alive.
But the experiences I’ve found most traumatic were avoidable. Throughout my life, I have been bullied and cast out by people who became frustrated when I didn’t communicate in ways they expected. My face doesn’t move much and my pitch rarely changes, sure, but I am deeply passionate. It is baffling and deeply hurtful when I am called cold, rejected for expressing myself differently.
When I was growing up, I was as unkind to myself as other people often were to me: I called myself evil, cold, weird. I internalized the worst things anyone could say because I believed them. Looking back at that child now, and that disruptive teenager, I just want her to know that she is loved. I see her staring so intently at her books or her train set or her Game Boy and I wish I could tell her that she’s autistic — and that it isn’t only OK, but good.
Marianne Eloise (@marianne_eloise) is a freelance writer whose work has appeared in Vice, The Guardian and other outlets.
Disability is a series of essays, art and opinion by and about people living with disabilities.
Now in print: “About Us: Essays From the Disability Series of The New York Times,” edited by Peter Catapano and Rosemarie Garland-Thomson, published by Liveright.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Last month, Sarah Hegazi, a 30-year-old Egyptian L.G.B.T.Q. rights activist, took her own life in Canada. Far away from Cairo, her home, she was profoundly haunted by what had happened to her there over the past two and a half years, having been arrested, tortured and hounded into exile. Her transgression? She raised the rainbow flag — unabashedly and joyously — at a concert in Cairo.
I was onstage that fated night, Sept. 22, 2017, with my band Mashrou' Leila. We’re an indie group from Beirut and have played across the Middle East and beyond for more than a decade now. Our Arabic lyrics tell stories of love, hope, loss, inequality and corruption, speaking to the ills that plague our region.
Performing onstage has given me my proudest memories. From where I usually stand, I look out at the sea of dreamers holding signs, waving flags, laughing, screaming and singing their hearts out. Collectively, we — band and fans — do what the Middle East’s leaders won’t: create a home for all of us. Class, race, sexuality, gender, politics and religion all fade away for two hours. Such a version of what the Arab world could be is a powerful rebuke and a threat to what the dictators, Islamists and sectarians have been offering us instead for decades.
Though we have performed at some of the most iconic venues across the globe, that concert in Cairo was our largest ever, with 35,000 people in attendance. To perform for so many in the soul of the Arab world, as Egypt is considered, was a milestone for us and a testament to that hunger for change.(Naysayers will observe that Nordic welfare wonderlands still sport uninspiring birthrates, to which I would reply that fulsome benefits for families are good regardless of whether they boost birthrates or sand down delays, because the primary beneficiaries of these benefits are, after all, children, and their worth is self-evident.)
But what of having children — or getting married, for that matter — before establishing oneself? That is: What to say to the young person who might consider those kinds of commitments if not for the finality of it all, the sense that she may be making somebody else before knowing who she herself really is? The standard-issue airline safety warning comes to mind: In the event of an air pressure change inside the cabin, secure your oxygen mask in place before you attempt to assist other passengers you may be traveling with. They don’t say or you’ll both be screwed. But you know that’s what they mean.
The thought certainly crossed my mind. When I got pregnant, my husband was a fledgling lawyer and I was a greenhorn journalist; a big night for us entailed walking to the local Popeyes to pick up a box of biscuits and a couple tubs of red beans and rice. Our basement apartment had orange and yellow walls and a single window-mounted air-conditioner with a permanent death rattle. In my memory it is always summer there, because every day passed with that languor of summer, the thrill of limitless possibility softened by a sense of no particular hurry. We both knew we were still waiting to become who we would be. This was all prelude.
And then we found ourselves in a darkened room in an obstetrician’s office, nervously watching an ultrasound flicker to blurry significance on a screen. The doctor pointed out a pale oblong smudge in the black field of my uterus. It looked like the ghost of a peanut. And then he adjusted some knob on the machine, and the wisp had an echoing heartbeat. Somehow, even after the surprise of the pregnancy itself, I still had the capacity to be stunned, and I was.
We spent our first tranche of anxiety on material concerns. Would we need a bigger place, and if so, how would we afford it? How much could we possibly save before D-Day? How would we pay for prenatal care, seeing as I was still on my mother’s insurance, which did not cover maternity care for dependents? Our jobs weren’t steady. We had no idea when or if they would be, or if either of us was really in the right line of work. Worldly possessions, self-understanding and confidence were all in short supply.
Then she was born.
One of the things they don’t tell you about having babies is that you don’t ever have a baby; you have your baby, which is, to you, the ur-baby, the sum of all babies. The moment they laid her damp rosy body on my chest, I knew she would envelop my world. I had worried about that very thing. In Sheila Heti’s novel “Motherhood,” the narrator, a cynical writer contemplating whether to have kids before it’s too late, laments the absence of new parents from their friends’ lives, a phenomenon she calls “that relieved and joyful desertion.” “When a person has a child,” she writes, “they are turned towards their child.” The risk of falling off the world haunted me. When you have a baby, you do turn toward your child — that “relieved and joyful desertion” may eventually affect your friends, but it first affects yourself.
What I didn’t understand — couldn’t have, at the time — was that deserting yourself for another person really is a relief. My days began to unfold according to her schedule, that weird rhythm of newborns, and the worries I entertained were better than the ones that came before: more concrete, more vital, less tethered to the claustrophobic confines of my own skull. For this member of a generation famously beset by anxiety, it was a welcome liberation.Here’s one sick part: I don’t feel good using the word “assault.” Part of the reason is my feeling of complicity. Part is my humiliation. And finally, there’s the thought that someone reading this will think that it’s not “as big of a deal” as intercourse. That I am being overly dramatic. That the poor guy was just trying to make a sad girl feel better.
But that, in fact, is the worst part. The blur.
For some women, the way it feels for someone to force himself on you in a nearly emotional way carries with it a certain diabolical confusion.
I didn’t kick the man in the head. I didn’t scream. Deplorably, I felt that if I kicked him, I’d not only be considered unreasonable but even unhinged. I remember, with an indescribable nausea, that I didn’t want the man to feel he was not “doing a good job.” Even just writing those words makes me feel powerless, existentially subjugated. Self-hating.
After the two rapes Ms. Haleyi allegedly suffered at the hands of Mr. Weinstein, she went on to write to him, to ask him for work and advice. If you haven’t been in a similar situation, it might be nearly impossible to hear that testimony and not feel a shred of suspicion. Why, if she was so despicably assaulted, would she continue to speak to the man? Even if she were afraid to contact the authorities, why would she not keep away from the monster?
I kept in touch with that man for a year or so after that evening. There were a number of reasons, not least of which was the emotional support he provided. On top of that, he professed to love me. He didn’t need anything from me except my willingness to let him be there for me. I was missing a father and he subtly played that role. I made it clear — with my words and my actions — that I wasn’t interested in anything more and he made it clear that he didn’t need anything more.
The confusion, the imbalance of that relationship, culminated in that night. That I did not kick him, that I did not scream when I found his head between my legs and my underwear pulled down around my ankles. I merely asked what he was doing. That moment was the ultimate symbol of my complicity. That is why, even though I was passed out, I feel tremulous using the word “assault.”
She could have just used her feet to shove him off, come on.
I wanted to stay awake that night, but I fell asleep. In the months that followed, the event did pale in intensity. I had larger wounds to heal: Another person I loved died. I didn’t see the man as a monster, exactly, but I was repulsed by his face, by his greedy eyes, by the way he still looked at me like I was that prostrate girl in her lonely, white bed, whom he was drawing up from the bowels of hell.
I woke the next morning to find that he had covered me in my father’s yellow blanket, as though he were giving me something else that I didn’t realize I needed.
Lisa Taddeo (@lisadtaddeo) is a columnist for The Sunday Times in London and the author of “Three Women.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Every working parent has trouble leaving the work at the office at the end of the day and focusing on family life. But in Senegal, where my work trips took me away for weeks at a time, reintegrating to home life could be particularly jarring: After meeting with children forcibly recruited into fighting a war by Islamic extremists, I came home to my own children whining about not getting a lead role in a school play and gripes about their father using the wrong kind of Band-Aid to cover their skinned knee. I didn’t shy away from telling my kids about the stories I had reported, hoping they would see the juxtaposition on their own.
I was pushing ahead in my career, and my husband, as the parent who mostly stayed behind, got to know our kids better than he ever had. But my children became hardened to me being gone. They came up with a name for me, a result of correcting themselves when their first impulse was to call out for their dad: To them, I was Daddy Mommy.
One evening I walked in the door to our house, relieved to let down my guard after tracking illegal gold miners in rural Senegal who were keen to show me the finer points of mining with plastic explosives. I entered the living room, where the kids were sitting on the floor engrossed in a board game with my husband. They didn’t even look up.
It made me feel bad, but I also knew that just outside my door, women were up against a much more rigid set of gendered expectations.
Many of the societies I covered were so patriarchal that women weren’t allowed to own land. In many families, men made all the big decisions and women were expected to stay home and cook and clean. This was a message broadcast by the most powerful men in society. Muhammadu Buhari, the president of Nigeria, once publicly proclaimed that his wife “belongs to my kitchen.”
Yet women here, too, were finding new ways to thrive. In the most cosmopolitan of cities, Lagos, Nigeria, I met with young women bucking societal expectations that they marry and have children in their 20s. Instead, they were focusing on their careers. This was such an affront to expectations that Nigerian mainstream media mocked them by calling them “old cargo.”
I spent a day shadowing Toyin Sanni, then one of the few female bank chief executives on the entire continent, as she conducted meetings from her corner office in a skyscraper along the Wall Street of Lagos. She had married another banker at a competing institution — but like many successful career women, Ms. Sanni didn’t divulge her salary to her husband, a simple and effective way to avoid denting the male ego.The other type, from a so-called radical feminist tradition, argues that trans women’s requests for gender recognition are incompatible with cis women’s rights to single-sex spaces. At its core, such an argument is not at odds with the first type — both rely on the conceit that trans and nonbinary people should not determine their own gender identities — but it is this second strain that is often expressed on the British left, from the communist Morning Star to the liberal New Statesman and The Guardian. Imported from American feminist circles during the 1970s, the argument is largely disowned in the United States. But it remains stubbornly persistent in Britain.
That is has done so owes much to the longevity of a generation of journalists who established themselves when the argument was orthodox. Many still hold influential roles as columnists or editors and have used their positions to keep the argument in the mainstream, while favoring a younger generation of writers who share their antipathy to trans people.
Younger trans and nonbinary people and their feminist allies have tried to shift the discussion onto the challenges we face in a transphobic society — with some success, especially in the early 2010s, when Trans Media Watch submitted a report to the Leveson inquiry into abuses of power by the British press. But that provoked an avalanche of commentary insisting that any discussion be returned to the intractable “debate” about whether trans and nonbinary identities (and especially those of trans women) were valid. Trans “activists” — anyone who questioned the terms of this “debate” — were characterized as an abusive mob and accused of silencing their critics, despite the fact that these critics could be heard advancing the same views in all major newspapers, every day, throughout the decade.
This counteroffensive reached its height in autumn 2018, as the Conservative government held consultations on reforms to the Gender Recognition Act, which had been passed in 2004. In response to demands for the bill to allow self-determination of trans and nonbinary identities, The Guardian — which as the country’s only center-left broadsheet newspaper plays an outsize role in political debate — published an editorial that attempted to find a center ground. But to do so, it took its framing and talking points from organizations implacably opposed to trans rights, as the writer Jules Gleeson noted. Many British trans writers, including me, have since declined to contribute to The Guardian, repeating a pattern played out in the New Statesman several years earlier.
The reforms to the Gender Recognition Act were shelved, topping off a dispiriting few years: The Leveson inquiry changed nothing, and none of the recommendations in a 2016 parliamentary report on transgender equality were brought in. Effectively excluded from mainstream liberal-left discourse and despairing of the possibilities for change under any Conservative government, trans and nonbinary people turned back to Labour as the only political institution potentially able to change both the conversation and legislation. That seemed especially possible after the narrow electoral defeat in 2017 offered hope that the party could soon take power on a platform of social democratic reform — led by someone who offered vocal, unwavering support for trans rights.One of my daughters likes to be frightened; the other cannot stand to worry.
The one who craves fear is 12: She swallows police procedurals whole, lobbies to watch Stephen King movies and takes refuge in Harry Potter audiobooks. Her sister, who is 7, is happiest with “Baby Boss” and a French cartoon called “Miraculous,” about Marinette, a superhero ladybug. She likes things that tie up nicely.
So even before our strange pandemic year of isolation, finding common television fare was near impossible. We avoided conflict, mostly, because huge chunks of time were — and remain — unnaturally divided. Orli, the 12-year-old, has spent many days in the hospital over the past 15 months, receiving chemotherapy, or suffering its aftereffects, or recovering from surgeries, of which there have been seven, of varying complexity. In the hospital, Orli watched “9 to 5” and “Working Girl” with me and binged on terror with my partner, her father, Ian. Back at home her sister, Hana, watched “Sing!” (on repeat) and “The InBESTigators,” an Australian Netflix series about a crew of mystery-solving kids.
Still, fortunately, we are together enough that I am often in search of something for us all to watch as a family, a refuge from Zoom school and pathogens, hospitals and worry, and treatments worse than illnesses, not to mention the regular, frustrating encroachments of never-ending video games the girls play for hours on end. We all need means of staving off continued Covid-induced boredom. I wanted us to engage with some of it together.
But three-quarters of the way through the pandemic, we had run dry. Then I remembered “Gilmore Girls.”The signs from the last march have been giving our men nightmares for a year. The ones from the year before still rankle. These placards and their slogans have poked neat little holes in Pakistanis’ collective idea of “mardangi,” or manhood.
The first sign that shot “mardangi” through the heart was, “Warm up your own food,” from 2018. That was so outrageous it caused a small national meltdown, prompting men to draw up their own lists of things women should do themselves: “Sew your own clothes,” “fix your own flat tire.” You can talk about your property rights and harassment in the workplace, but how dare you ask me to press that button on the microwave? You really have it coming.
Things got a lot worse for men during the second Aurat March, last year, when they had to read a poster that said, “How do I know where your socks are?” Another sign that posed a direct challenge to the social order was an illustration of a woman sitting, fully clothed, with her legs open, just like men do. It read, “Look, I am sitting properly.” Young girls are told over and over again to sit properly, with their legs closed. That a woman would claim a full seat has been called “womanspreading” and declared vulgar and repugnant to our culture.
Then there’s the sign that says, “My Body, My Consent.” After the human rights activist Marvi Sirmed repeated the slogan on TV earlier this week, one of the panelists, a TV and film writer, lashed out: “What is in your body? Have you seen your body? A man would not spit on your body!” Then he called her names that are usually never uttered on the air. Many journalists condemned the outburst, but the panelist became a hero of sorts to some men for, as they saw it, putting Ms. Sirmed back in her place. Other TV programs scrambled to invite him to give his side of the story.
But really, what has had the patriarchy drop all pretense of civility is a placard that asked men to keep to themselves selfies of their penises. “Lahol wala …” was the reaction of a senior journalist on live television as he started to recite a prayer that’s meant to ward off Satan. Then he went on to proclaim that the slogan was a violation of his basic human rights and the judiciary should take action.Our attitude toward Christmas evolved, in America, into an all-out everything but the gifts. For most people, I suppose a gift exchange is the point. We did gifts on birthdays and cash on Hindu holidays. For us, the holidays have always been more about the extended joy, as close to a wedding season as we will get in this country.
As an adult, I still traveled over winter break, first with my best friend, and then the boyfriend who became my husband. Both are Jewish, none of us were expected at home, but part of a winter travel plan was always figuring out where to spend Christmas with someone who celebrated it: A white elephant gift exchange in Rome. Sleeping under an entire jamón Ibérico in Madrid. Sprinkling furikake on wasabi Christmas salmon on a hilltop in Oahu, Hawaii.
The tradition continues with our children, because our neighbors have designated their house as a drop-off point for Santa, who always remembers a gift for each of them.
This year, of course, is a little different. We celebrated Hanukkah as we always do, with family time and the unwrapping of reasonable, enriching gifts. But the next week looms empty, our usual smorgasbord of joyful options cut off.
My friend Camilla’s dining table will not become a gargantuan cheese board. Our darling neighbors won’t gift our son something wildly impractical and noisy that he loves more than all eight presents he gets from us.
Even my father has toned down his rituals. There aren’t any lights outside the house. “It didn’t seem appropriate during a pandemic,” he said. He has wound one rope of lights around the banister inside, and another on the deck, where only he can see them. They bring him joy when he looks out the window before bed.
This season, I will mark the occasion myself. Trader Joe’s makes a chocolate orange. I might confit some duck. We do have some string lights. Maybe we’ll watch “Elf,” have some cocoa and FaceTime some friends. Some friends who actually celebrate Christmas. Because all we do, really, is enjoy it.
Priyanka Mattoo is a writer and filmmaker.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Scruff and Jack’d are peppering their apps with public-safety announcements promoting hand-washing and keeping a safe distance from people showing symptoms. But as we know, people can transmit the virus while showing no symptoms at all. And not everyone believes the science anyway. When I asked a man who messaged me on Grindr why he wanted to meet up, given that the C.D.C. advises extreme social distancing, he responded: “I don’t believe in this. I don’t believe the media.” Then he blocked me.
It’s not just some gay men who refuse to prioritize communal safety over fun. Far from it.
This past weekend, before the state of Florida finally broke up the party, college students on spring break flocked to the beaches there. A young man in Miami told a CBS reporter: “If I get corona, I get corona. At the end of the day, I’m not going to let it stop me from partying.” As of Friday, Florida had reported 520 cases of the coronavirus and 10 deaths.
Tinder is very much online, even as it directs users to W.H.O. guidelines. Grindr is doing something similar. When I reached out to the company this week, a representative told me, “We are advising users to follow guidelines provided by the C.D.C. and have published these guidelines in the Grindr app to help users make the best-informed decisions when interacting with others.”
But can we really afford to rely on horny people forced to stay at home all day to “make the best-informed decisions” about everyone else’s health? History — and my Grindr inbox — tells us no.
I don’t think the apps should be shut down. Mr. Silverberg is right: They give people in my world an opportunity to connect socially, not just physically. But everyone needs to cooperate to halt the spread of a deadly virus. That is something that gay men should understand in our bones.Mr. Crouppen had spent tens of thousands of dollars on season passes, personal seat licenses and team jerseys over the years. Now he, like thousands of other Rams fans, felt as if they had been duped. Despite Mr. Kroenke being born and bred in Missouri, he seemed to have more allegiance to his bank account than to St. Louis.
So Mr. Crouppen decided to pay thousands of dollars out of his own pocket to run an advertisement during the Super Bowl’s half time to tell Mr. Kroenke exactly what he thought of him. He hoped the owner would see it and reflect on “the bad things he had done” to the Rams, and to his city.
Judging by what had happened to the Rams, Mr. Crouppen was sure that Mr. Kroenke’s foray in English soccer would follow the same path: the pursuit of profit above all else, especially the fans. “How much money does this guy need?” he said.
European soccer fans now have the same sinking feeling Mr. Crouppen did. While they haven’t booked any ad time on TV, protests have been taking place outside stadiums. Everyone is furious. But the roots of the problem can be found at the turn of the century, when European soccer opened their doors to virtually anyone with large amounts of money. And the English Premier League was perhaps the easiest league for anyone to buy a club in.
In 2003 Roman Abramovich, a virtually unknown oligarch with close ties to President Vladimir Putin of Russia, bought Chelsea FC and sank hundreds of millions of dollars into the squad. They won the English Premier League and the UEFA Champions League. That sparked something of an arms race. To compete, clubs needed their own billionaires, leading to a flurry of sales and acquisitions from a motley assortment of characters: a former prime minister of Thailand who had recently been deposed in a coup, a Hong Kong hairdresser turned investor who would end up in jail for money laundering, a Saudi tycoon whom club officials weren’t even sure existed.
Today almost every English Premier League club is controlled or co-owned by as many as 19 billionaires from 10 countries. In Italy, AC Milan is controlled by Elliot Management, a U.S. hedge fund best known for buying distressed sovereign debt. In France, Paris Saint-Germain is controlled by an investment vehicle owned by Qatar. Each has his own reason to buy a club, whether that’s reputation laundering or, in the case of soccer’s American billionaire owners, the pursuit of profit.
Whichever country an owner comes from, all now agree that an American-style rationalization of the business — and the European Super League is the biggest manifestation of their approach so far — would yield the best returns.But soon after the Civil War ended, a different question began to be asked that echoed the debates about enslaved Africans’ humanity: “What does it mean to be civilized?” This question emerged in the early years of the industrial age and America’s dawning global ambitions, and it reflected an anxiety born of a fading masculinity as men engaged machines to do the heavy work and as the nation sought to flex its muscles.
When it came to Black people, the answer to this question invited the most meanspirited answers that were deployed to justify denying African-Americans the fruits of American citizenship. Politicians routinely declared that Black men were not suited to vote because they were not civilized. The same logic was deployed to keep Black Americans in substandard housing and low-wage jobs, since they were “not ready” for the rigors of a civilized life. And when all else failed, it was routine to make declarations of “jungle savagery” when Black men were accused of sexually assaulting white women.
Although African-Americans have had to endure arguments, policies and practices that declared they were not fully human, that they could not be citizens and that they were not civilized, African-Americans have been undaunted in their desire to be considered all of the above.
These desires have not been satisfied, in part because African-Americans’ contributions to this country’s history have been ignored. The erasure is as stunning as it is thorough. The role of Black labor in building the Southern economic infrastructure has been routinely denied. The contributions that Black scholars have made in the humanities, the life sciences and the natural sciences have been lost because of segregated workplaces. The work of Black creative artists has been disregarded since it became appropriated into the national cultural apparatus.
These denials exact a great psychological toll. The writer James Baldwin understood as much when in 1965 he soberly declared, “It comes as a great shock to discover the country which is your birthplace and to which you owe your life and your identity has not in its whole system of reality evolved any place for you.”
Mr. Baldwin understood that the ability to rationalize away Black Americans’ place in the “system of reality” was due to a powerful commitment to not knowing the Black past. In the same text, he continued with a heartbreaking question: “If one has got to prove one’s title to the land, isn’t 400 years enough?” This question, along with the others that are central to the study of the African-American past, is laden with a complexity that tells a story about our own capacity and willingness to ever realize the ideal articulated in the country’s founding document, namely that all people are created equal.
The willful failure to appreciate that many people — the dispossessed, the poor, the enslaved, even the immigrants from “less desirable” countries — have contributed to an exceptional national experiment leads people like the Proud Boys and a few too many members of Congress away from being the true patriots that they claim to be.
Jonathan Holloway is the president of Rutgers University, a historian and the author, most recently, of “The Cause of Freedom: A Concise History of African Americans.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.I finished television during the pandemic and started on movies. Now I’m almost finished with those, too! My hips have locked in a supine position and my eyes are dry as a bone, but I persist. What else is there to do?
I’m traveling back through the decades, and I recently watched the 1931 film “Frankenstein.” I enjoyed that famous scene of the monster getting overly excited by social contact and flinging Maria, his little friend, into a lake. The monster has been shunned for so long that he can scarcely believe it when Maria takes his hand and includes him in a game. He is so thrilled to be relieved of his loneliness that he tosses her to her death. I will be just the same way by the end of this pandemic. I will be so happy to see my friends that I’ll mutter and tremble with joy and more than likely, I’ll accidentally drown them. Still, I can’t wait!
Aside from a snatched walk here and there or a chilly drink on a Brooklyn sidewalk, I haven’t had any new experiences with my friends for many months now. Instead, I’ve been turning over memories of old experiences with them like treasures found at the bottom of the ocean.
One recent night, I dove down and came back up with Thanksgiving 2016. As an immigrant I don’t have any family here, or any traditions either. This is liberating because it allows me to create new versions of both. That holiday, my friend Abi and her husband, Noel, threw their apartment open. They rented chairs and made tables out of plywood and almost 20 of us showed up. There was wine and music and huge platters of food, which we breathed over without a care in the world. I don’t remember what we talked about, but I can see, clear as day, my friend Emilie at one side of the table and my friend Sophie on the other. There were some new, interesting people dotted around and all of us were laughing our heads off. As we laughed, we passed the potatoes like some corny scene in a holiday movie. I almost didn’t go to Abi’s that evening because all the pies were sold out at the bakery and I didn’t want to show up without a dessert. As if anyone cared! Can you believe that? As if we needed anything more than one another and a warm place to sit and be together.Mr. DeJoy’s 10-year plan for the agency, announced in March, seeks to address the hemorrhaging of cash in part by raising rates and streamlining service, in some cases cutting back on hours and employees. On Friday the Postal Service announced that a first-class stamp would cost 58 cents, up from 55 cents, starting this summer
Some cutbacks and rate increases are necessary. But what the post office really needs is reimagining. An alliance of more than 80 national organizations, including the American Postal Workers Union, has put out a proposal to use the existing infrastructure in new ways — anchoring the expansion of broadband access in rural areas or checking in on elderly and disabled people for whom mail carriers are the only point of daily human contact. The alliance’s plan also includes expanding the provision of financial services, such as affordable check-cashing, which could be vital in underserved areas. A 2015 report by the Postal Service Office of Inspector General estimates that such services could provide meaningful assistance to 68 million Americans who either don’t have a bank account or rely on expensive payday lending programs to cash checks. The Postal Service is already the single largest provider of paper money orders nationwide, and it offered savings accounts to customers until the late 1960s. The inspector general’s report estimated that the expansion of such services would generate about $1 billion in new revenue annually.
The Postal Service Reform Act would not explicitly authorize this kind of expansion, but it would leave the door open for experimentation by including a provision to allow more cooperation with state and local governments to offer nonpostal products on their behalf.
The bill would also put the Postal Service on firmer financial footing by removing a 2006 congressional requirement that the agency set aside large amounts of cash to cover the cost of employee post-retirement health benefits 75 years into the future. It is unreasonable to force the Postal Service to prefund retiree benefits that far ahead, something no other entity — public or private — is expected to do. The bill would also require the Postal Service to enroll all of its employees in Medicare when eligible, significantly reducing the agency’s health care costs. Although mail carriers pay taxes into Medicare — and are the second-largest contributor to Medicare in the country — Medicare enrollment is voluntary for retirees.
Those changes, as requested by Mr. DeJoy, would help stop the financial bleeding at the agency, which has operated at a loss since 2006. It would save an estimated $45 billion over 10 years, freeing up money to make much-needed investments in modernization. A separate postal reform bill includes $8 billion to make a majority of postal trucks electric vehicles, which would be an enormous leap toward reducing emissions. That’s a plan that can be embraced by both environmental activists and corporations like Amazon, which ships packages through the Postal Service. As Amazon brings more deliveries in-house, the potential loss of revenue for the Postal Service poses a challenge that must be met with creativity and collaboration with other businesses that might fill the gap.Such films have existed since the beginning of American cinema. At first glance, the recently discovered short film “Something Good Negro Kiss,” from 1898, appears to be a joyous rendering of Black people in love, but as the film historian Allyson Field argues, the Black performers actually seem to be satirizing Thomas Edison’s “The Kiss” from two years prior.
The 1913 film “Lime Kiln Club Field Day” features the Black minstrel performer Bert Williams wearing blackface makeup, and complicates our understanding of the art form. His presence alongside non-blackfaced Black actors draws focus to the performative, rather than racist, aspects of blackface. It demonstrates how Black performers sometimes used the makeup as a mask to differentiate between cinematic tropes of blackness and “real” Black people, a practice that indicates a keen awareness — yes, even then — of how cinema functions in relation to representation.
Though we keep insisting on the importance of “authenticity” in Black representations (a fraught and contested term), these early examples suggest Black modalities that were wry and subversive, and which understood the difference between performance and reality. How different might our understanding of the history of film be today, had these been the starting point for what we imagine Black film was, is and can be yet?The people of Lahore throw a loud birthday bash for their Prophet, and Sarmad captured his hometown in rapture.
Three censor boards cleared the film for release in theaters in different regions.
The scriptwriter, Nirmal Bano, told me in September, “I felt indescribable joy in writing a male character who did all the household chores without painting him into some kind of hero.” It’s this householder, a caring man and struggling property dealer and, according to Sarmad, a good-enough Muslim, who faces the wrath of his community after a short video of him dancing goes viral. This, even though videos of old bearded men dancing at weddings are practically a subgenre on Pakistani YouTube.
Enter Khadim Hussain Rizvi, a real-life cleric and self-appointed guardian of the Prophet’s honor.
If a character like Mr. Rizvi were shown in a feature film, he would probably be considered over the top. Mr. Rizvi, who died in November, would appear at rallies in a wheelchair wearing spotless, starched white robes and a black turban. He was fiery and funny, mixing in his sermons poetry and curses with quotes from the holy texts.
Mr. Rizvi also thought he spotted blasphemy everywhere, including in Sarmad’s film.
A blasphemy charge in Pakistan is a tricky thing to deal with: One person accusing another of blasphemy can’t say what the insult was because just repeating it would be blasphemy, too. It’s also a dangerous thing.
In 2010, Salman Taseer, the governor of Punjab Province, spoke up for Asia Bibi, a Christian woman accused of insulting the Prophet. He visited her in prison, even had a picture taken with her, and called on the blasphemy laws to be amended. Mr. Taseer’s bodyguard, the constable Malik Mumtaz Hussain Qadri, shot him in January 2011. Twenty-seven times.
Mr. Qadri was sentenced to death under the law of the land, and a cult was born: An ordinary policeman had killed a powerful governor, not because of any personal enmity, but because he couldn’t stand an insult against the Prophet. Mr. Rizvi founded the religious party Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (T.L.P.) partly around the cause of getting Mr. Qadri released.
Mr. Qadri was hanged in 2016, but T.L.P. kept hunting for blasphemers. Mr. Rizvi latched on to a brief argument between two bearded characters in the trailer for “Zindagi Tamasha,” during which one threatens to accuse the other of blasphemy. He claimed this was an insult to Islamic scholars, and hence an insult to Islam. He said the film would be released “over my dead body.”“Sweet Alice brought police and community together at every one of her events in Watts,” recalls Bratton. “She provided an atmosphere, particularly for the children, where the police could be seen in a very different way, after 50 years of only seeing the police locking up brothers and fathers.”
As an adviser to Bratton, Rice helped train former gang members to quell the violence in their communities. She wrote in The Times in 2013 about her experience: “Mr. Bratton went into the Black community and didn’t leave. He courted Black leaders, attended church and community meetings and bonded with as many African-Americans up and down the social ladder as he could.”
“My time in L.A. validated that police could be the instrument to bring about racial harmony,” says Bratton. “They had a 50-year history of open warfare with the Black community. The idea was to keep the Blacks down in South L.A., just keep them from coming out and bothering the rest of us. The relationship was awful. They were oppressive, they were brutal, they were racist.”
Bratton has harsh words for the leaders of the Black Lives Matter organization, calling them “a bunch of Marxists.”
“I’ve been all my life behind the idea that Black lives matter, the individual, the race. But as far as Black Lives Matter, the organization, I think we are beginning to understand that some of their goals are very different than what most people think the goals are. It turns out that basically their founding was based on attacking the police,” he says, adding, “It will be very interesting also to understand what are they doing with all the money that they raise.”
He says that, even though Biden “went to the left to basically get elected,” his “relationships with the police over the years and with unions have been very good.”
Many people feel strongly that the 1994 crime bill, of which Biden was an architect, harmed Black communities. But Bratton says he believes the good outweighed the bad, and Biden shouldn’t have apologized for elements of the bill.For those of us who admired the moral power of a single married couple using their disproportionate wealth to save untold numbers of lives around the world, the details of the marital fallout make me wonder if we’ve been played. Or perhaps we just put too much faith in people who are as human as anyone else.
Every marriage is a mystery, of course, which no outsider can ever truly understand. But it’s the rare union that guides the Gates Foundation, one of the largest charitable foundations — which projects an image of a global do-gooder and promoter of women’s empowerment.
Reports about the questionable behavior of Mr. Gates, particularly his association with the convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, are troubling, to say the least. Equally upsetting are reports that Mr. Gates was reluctant to take decisive action in response to complaints of a pattern of workplace misconduct by his financial manager, Michael Larson. (Mr. Larson and Chris Giglio, his spokesman, denied some but not all accusations of misconduct by Mr. Larson.)
The power of the Gates union was greater than the sum of the two parts. Bill and Melinda must have understood this when they invited us to care about them, through the books, the annual letter, the TED talks, the commencement speeches and the Oprah Winfrey interviews. There’s even a Netflix docu-series in which mundane details of their private lives are revealed. All that quasi-public effort worked: In 2019, Mr. Gates was the world’s most admired man in one YouGov survey.
And yet the rapidly emerging fourth act of Bill Gates’s life could certainly overshadow the three that came before it, and cloud the disposition not only of the man but also of the world’s most influential charity.Embellishing his landscapes, he painted billboards and altered the street signs. He towed in dilapidated cars and installed an old telephone booth. “We age everything,” he said. “It should all look slightly broken. We work closely with the town. I asked them not to pave any streets, cut any grass. It’s all in the effort of making a world that is beautiful and unsettling. I want it to feel both timeless and of the moment.” Everything appears to be outmoded, even the overhead electric wires.
He shot “An Eclipse of Moths,” and previous sequences of Berkshires-based photographs, during the summer, when the twilight is prolonged. Conveniently, he is off from his teaching duties at Yale, where he is the director of graduate studies in photography. “There is a New England quality in the majesty of some of the trees,” said his friend Deborah Berke, dean of the Yale School of Architecture. “A sturdiness and scale and greenness to some of those trees is in high contrast to the buildings and the cars and the other parts of the landscape that don’t have that staying power.”
The section of Pittsfield where he staged his pictures is near a General Electric transformer plant that poisoned the environment with PCBs but also employed most of the town. Ms. Hiam, who was born in Pittsfield, said, “My parents worked for GE. Everyone I knew had parents who came here for GE.” Pittsfield was devastated in 1987 by the closing of the factory, which now looms over the landscape like a ruined castle in a European village.One flaw in the Philadelphia and Virginia models, and in the rules in some other jurisdictions with similar requirements, is that landlords are required to apply for tenant aid only if they are pursuing an eviction for failure to pay rent. It is relatively easy to skirt that requirement by citing a different cause, like maintenance issues or noise complaints. It would also be easy to fix this problem by uniformly requiring aid applications.
Limits on eviction vary across the country. The federal government has prohibited evictions from properties with government-backed mortgages through June 30. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also has banned evictions through June 30 involving households that cannot pay rent because of economic hardship caused by the pandemic. Many state and local governments have imposed broader bans, some of which are scheduled to remain in place at least through summer. In New York State, the current expiration date is Aug. 31.
During the pandemic, allowing people to stay in their homes has saved lives, according to a study published in Nature Communications. As the pandemic wanes, however, so does the justification for asking landlords to bear the cost of unpaid rent.
About 47 percent of rental units are owned by individual investors. They have bills to pay, too.
The federal aid is meant to pass through tenants to their landlords. But tenants may be unaware of the aid program, or may struggle to complete the application. So long as moratoriums remain in place, landlords may need the money more urgently than their tenants do. At a hearing in the District of Columbia on Friday, landlords testified that some tenants won’t apply for aid because there are no immediate consequences for failing to pay the rent.
“The fact remains that people in general won’t do something until they absolutely have to, even if it is in their best interest,” said Richard Bianco of the Small Multifamily Owners Association.
Mr. Bianco's observation, however, also applies to landlords. Some states are preparing for a summer wave of evictions by providing tenants with legal assistance. Washington State, whose eviction moratorium is set to expire on June 30, recently became the first state to guarantee a lawyer to low-income tenants facing eviction. But such programs do not go far enough because they don’t require landlords to help.
Across the country, many tenants are trying as hard as they can to pay what they owe and stay where they are. Many landlords have behaved with admirable forbearance. For the minority of cases where good will is not enough, Philadelphia has the right idea.To the Editor:
Re “At 107, 106 and 100, Remaining Tulsa Massacre Survivors Plead for Justice” (news article, nytimes.com, May 20):
The 1921 Tulsa massacre survivors, victims and their descendants deserve an official apology and reparations from the U.S. government. I hope that President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris surprise us with an official pronouncement on May 31 or June 1, the 100th anniversary of those horrible days in America.
If the administrations of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and President Barack Obama saved white Wall Street during the Great Depression and after the 2008 economic crisis, President Biden can right the racially based wrongs committed a hundred years ago against the “Black Wall Street” community of Tulsa.
As a 21st-century American society, the least we can do to begin eradicating racism and its brutality against nonwhite Americans, whether in Tulsa, Minneapolis or elsewhere across America, is to demand from ourselves and others that all human beings, no matter their skin color or class position, be treated with the same human dignity we ourselves expect to be treated with and, most important, with legal justice.
Alejandro Lugo
Park Forest, Ill.
The writer has taught anthropology and ethnic and racial studies for three decades at several American universities.On the last day of his life, Frederick Douglass attended a meeting of the National Women’s Council. The prodigious orator and abolitionist came home to Cedar Hill, his hilltop house in the Anacostia neighborhood of Washington, D.C.; spoke with his wife at the time, Helen Pitts Douglass, about the events and future plans; clasped his hands to his chest and died that evening. It seemed impossible that such an indomitable man was gone.
On that final day, his meeting had been an act of reconciliation. Douglass, the only African-American to participate in the Seneca Falls convention in New York in 1848, had been staunch in his support of women’s full enfranchisement at a time when this was a divisive issue in antislavery societies in the United States and Britain. His later support of the passage of the 15th Amendment, which conferred the right to vote on Black men, came as a blow to the movement for women’s rights at a key moment. The end of the Civil War had created urgency to secure Black suffrage through the 15th Amendment, however ineffectual it became through the vise created by racist Jim Crow era policies.
Even with the rift over the 15th Amendment, Douglass was unwavering in his support of women’s right to vote though his sense of timing and strategy shifted. “Her right to be and to do is as full, complete and perfect as the right of any man on earth,” he said in 1888 at the International Council of Women, in Washington. “I say of her, as I say of the colored people, ‘Give her fair play, and hands off.’”Yes, the rich, willowy blonde at Goop’s helm is an easy target. No, the average Jane can’t afford plasma facials or a trip to Jamaica to drink magic mushroom tea under the guidance of a legitimate shaman. And sure, we know all about the Yoni Egg Debacle, wherein the company had to pay a hefty fine for making unsubstantiated medical claims. Disclaimers are now rightfully in place all over both the site and the show, and obviously we should always practice good hygiene, but it’s worth repeating that so far there are no documented reports in the medical literature of yoni eggs causing anybody harm.
The tsunami of Goop hatred is best understood within a context that is much older and runs much deeper than Twitter, streaming platforms, consumerism or capitalism.
Throughout history, women in particular have been mocked, reviled, and murdered for maintaining knowledge and practices that frightened, confused and confounded “the authorities.” (Namely the church, and later, medicine.) Criticism of Goop is founded, at least in part, upon deeply ingrained reserves of fear, loathing, and ignorance about things we cannot see, touch, authenticate, prove, own or quantify. It is emblematic of a cultural insistence that we quash intuitive measures and “other” ways of knowing — the sort handed down via oral tradition, which, for most women throughout history, was the only way of knowing. In other words, it’s classic patriarchal devaluation.
When 19th-century medicine men were organizing and legitimizing their brand-new profession, they claimed the mantle of “science” even though there was no such thing as evidence-based medicine at the time. In order to dominate the market, they slandered all other modalities as “quackery,” including midwifery, which we know achieved safer birth outcomes back then, as it still does today. Pejoratives like “woo” or “pseudoscience” are still often applied to anything that falls outside of the mainstream medical establishment. (Think about this the next time you hear something harmless or odd or common-sensical dismissed as an “old wives’ tale.”)
Our society likes to conjoin the concepts of science and health, but the two do not always overlap. Peer-reviewed, lab-generated, randomized, controlled, double-blinded evidence will always be the gold standard, but such studies aren’t always fundable, or ethical. We kiss our children’s boo-boos even though there’s no gold standard evidence that it will make them feel better. We just know that it does. Which in turn makes us feel better. That’s “wellness.”The United States is notable for its individualism. The results of several large surveys assessing the values held by the people of various nations consistently rank the United States as the world’s most individualist country. Individualism, as defined by behavioral scientists, means valuing autonomy, self-expression and the pursuit of personal goals rather than prioritizing the interests of the group — be it family, community or country.
Whether America’s individualism is a source of pride or concern varies. Some people extol this mind-set as a source of our entrepreneurial spirit, self-reliance and geographic mobility. Others worry that our individualism is antithetical to a sense of social responsibility, whether that means refusing to wear masks and get vaccinated during the pandemic or disrupting the close family bonds and social ties seen in more traditional societies.
Everyone seems to agree that our individualism makes us self-centered or selfish, and to disagree only about how concerning that is.
But new research suggests the opposite: When comparing countries, my colleagues and I found that greater levels of individualism were linked to more generosity — not less — as we detail in a forthcoming article in the journal Psychological Science.The stand-up comedian Jes Tom has a go-to pronoun joke: “I like when people call me ‘they.’ It makes me feel less lonely.”
Tom is part of a small but growing group of comedians that doesn’t exclusively identify with the gender labels of “male” and “female,” and before the pandemic were regularly performing stand-up sets around New York City.
Over several months, we spoke with five of these comedians about the joys and frustrations of explaining their gender onstage and the entertainment industry’s newfound interest in nonbinary performers. They also talked about the challenges of working in a field embroiled in a continuing discussion about what is and isn’t off limits in comedy.
All this coincides with a greater awareness of gender diversity in the culture at large. In 2019, Merriam-Webster’s word of the year was the singular pronoun “they,” and both the singer Sam Smith and Jonathan Van Ness of “Queer Eye” came out as nonbinary. The Supreme Court recently ruled that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 protects gay and transgender workers from workplace discrimination. And on the state and federal level there are proposals that would allow a third gender option on passports and drivers’ licenses.Their outfits carry Easter eggs — symbols and clues that speak to the social context or their personalities, Ms. Bergmann explained. Sunflower motifs are carved into Stanton’s dress because she had used the pseudonym Sunflower when writing editorials for The Lily newspaper in Seneca Falls, N.Y., Ms. Bergmann said. Anthony has a cameo around her neck depicting Minerva — the Roman goddess of strategy and wisdom. Truth wears her signature shawl — the tassels appear to be blowing in the wind — and a striped brocade jacket with laurel wreaths woven in to symbolize victory and honor.
That they are all attired in long skirts and dresses is significant too. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, women fighting for social reforms — including Stanton — adopted what came to be known as the “Bloomer costume,” knee-length dresses worn over trousers, which offered freedom and respite from the more constricting corsets and floor-length dresses that were standard at the time.
“Stanton once said how wonderful it was to be able to climb a flight of stairs holding a baby in one arm and a candle in the other without having to hold up 10 pounds of wool skirt and petticoats,” Bergmann noted.
But the outfits were such radical departures from the norm that they invited intense mockery and distracted from broader conversations about women’s rights, so the suffrage fighters gave them up. Ms. Bergmann said this informed her own choice to have the statues in voluminous skirts.The recent White House meeting between President Biden and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea produced a comprehensive and substantive joint statement emphasizing cooperation on climate change, global health, sustainable development, and democracy in Myanmar, among other issues.
Of course, the central task of this decades-long alliance remains to defend against the threat posed by North Korea. That country’s nuclear and long-range missile program is aimed at the United States, and recent reports suggest the regime of Kim Jong-un may have dozens of nuclear warheads in its arsenal.
But the lofty language that flowed from the White House meeting was worrisome, indicating that the United States and South Korea were on a path that could put both countries at greater risk from the North.
The text of the joint statement suggests that Mr. Moon has convinced the United States to renew its commitment to “the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” to affirm the 2018 accords Kim Jong-un signed with Mr. Moon and with former President Donald Trump, and to endorse the establishment of “permanent peace on the Korean Peninsula.” It is carefully written language aimed at appeasing Mr. Kim and enticing him into dialogue on a détente that he hasn’t yet agreed to.“Our Constitution is colorblind and neither knows nor tolerates classes among citizens,” he wrote in its most famous passage. “In respect of civil rights, all citizens are equal before the law. The humblest is the peer of the most powerful. The law regards man as man and takes no account of his surroundings or his color when his civil rights as guaranteed by the supreme law of the land are involved.”
Nearly six decades later, when the Supreme Court finally overruled Plessy v. Ferguson in the case of Brown v. Board of Education, many people, even in white America, agreed that Harlan had been right all along. “Justice Harlan Concurring,” was the cheeky headline on The New York Times editorial the Sunday after the decision. “This is an instance in which the voice crying in the wilderness finally becomes the expression of a people’s will,” wrote the Times editorial board.
Thus, 43 years after his death, Harlan got a posthumous pat on the back, along with the not insignificant acknowledgment that he alone had seen clear of the fog of racism. (This was quite ironic, since he had owned slaves early in his life.) But those attaboys didn’t completely capture the importance of his dissent. More than just a static marker, it was a road map for those who would labor into the future to undo the great injustice done that day. Harlan had drawn such guidelines in his dissents before Plessy, and would do so afterward, as well — in cases involving crucial economic and labor protections as well as race. His status as a legal progenitor extends into the current day, when justices of all political persuasions acknowledge the soundness of his views while admiring his courage in expressing them.
Over the last decade or so, as African-American newspapers have become digitized, the impact of Harlan’s words on the Black community has become clearer, including its role in inspiring the many courageous figures who rose up to challenge the separate-but-equal doctrine approved in Plessy.
“Beyond the decision of the Supreme Court, there is no redress,” grieved The Enterprise, a Black paper in Omaha, in the days after the decision. A month later, The Enterprise was able to focus on the future: “We have read nothing so clear, so manly, so straight forward and uncompromising in many a day as Justice Harlan’s dissenting opinion … he uttered words that will ever endear him to the hearts of the colored people.”This month the TV news program “60 Minutes” ran a segment on recent sightings by Navy pilots of unidentified flying objects. The pilots’ accounts were bolstered by videos recorded by cameras onboard their planes that captured what the government now calls “unidentified aerial phenomena.”
In the wake of these enigmatic encounters, people are asking me what I think about U.F.O.s and aliens. They’re asking because I’m an astrophysicist who is involved in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. My colleagues and I were recently awarded one of the first NASA grants to look for signs of advanced technology on planets outside our solar system. (I’ve argued in these pages that the 10 billion trillion habitable planets that we now believe exist in the universe make extraterrestrial civilizations far more likely.)
I understand that U.F.O. sightings, which date back at least to 1947, are synonymous in the popular imagination with evidence of extraterrestrials. But scientifically speaking, there is little to warrant that connection. There are excellent reasons to search for extraterrestrial life, but there are equally excellent reasons not to conclude that we have found evidence of it with U.F.O. sightings.
Let’s start with the Navy cases. Some of the pilots have told of seeing flying objects shaped like Tic Tacs or other unusual forms. The recordings from the planes’ cameras show amorphous shapes moving in surprising ways, including appearing to skim the ocean’s surface and then disappear beneath it. This might appear to be evidence of extraterrestrial technology that can defy the laws of physics as we understand them — but in reality it doesn’t amount to much.Do you remember that scene in “Sex and the City” when Carrie gets dumped by her boyfriend via Post-it note? “I’m sorry,” it reads. “I can’t. Don’t hate me.” That’s what I think of when my friends ask if I’ve seen the latest TV show populated almost entirely by white people: I’m sorry. I can’t. Don’t hate me.
And that’s why the new dramedy “Run the World” is such a breath of fresh air. In the opening scene, we meet Renee (Bresha Webb), a Black woman wearing a pink fur coat and gold bamboo hoop earrings, ordering a bacon, egg and cheese at a bodega. As she waits, a white woman reaches over her and bumps into her without so much as an “excuse me.” “This female colonizer in here was literally standing on top of me!” Renee quips to a friend on the phone. When the sandwich is ready, both women reach for it, triggering a cathartic outburst from Renee — the kind that many Black women wish we could release when the rubs of racist microaggressions erode our patience for polite encounters.
Just two minutes in, I felt seen.
Created by Leigh Davenport, “Run the World,” which premieres on Starz May 16, doesn’t assert a social justice agenda; instead, what it offers is pure pleasure. As in “Sex and the City,” the main characters are a foursome of friends, and as in “Sex and the City,” the women gossip and swap one-liners in New York City clubs, parks and over brunch, in expensive clothes selected by the costume designer Patricia Field. But that’s where the similarities end. The essential fifth friend in “Run the World” is Harlem, and whether the four friends are drinking nutcrackers from bodegas, shopping at the Malcolm Shabazz Harlem Market for African prints or accepting a plate at a street barbecue, they exude the ease of belonging to a Black community.Straight people have often asked me what I, a gay man, have in common with someone who’s trans. Gay people have often put that question to themselves. There are many answers. Here’s one: I know what it’s like to have my identity, my dignity — my very hold on happiness — pressed into partisan battle and fashioned into a political weapon.
I know what it’s like to be used.
And right now, trans people are being used, cruelly.
You probably heard about what happened in Arkansas. On Tuesday, state lawmakers there voted overwhelmingly, by a three-to-one ratio, to override a veto from the Republican governor, Asa Hutchinson, and effectively ban gender-affirming medical treatments, such as puberty blockers and hormone therapy, for trans youth under the age of 18.
It doesn’t matter if those youth are pleading for this kind of help or have already begun receiving it and found it to be lifesaving. It doesn’t matter if their parents, having wrestled hard with the situation and done extensive research, believe that therapy is crucial. It doesn’t matter if physicians have concluded it’s in the youths’ best interest. Politicians know best.
And they’re expert at identifying vulnerable, marginalized populations and demonizing them in the interest of political gain. That’s what Republicans in Arkansas, in Alabama and in dozens of other states are doing with scores of active bills, many of which focus on denying trans youth gender-affirming treatments and dictating how they may or may not participate in sports.That’s just one episode; no wonder the inquiry holds the attention of many Brazilians. So far, we have been treated to testimony from three former health ministers — one of them had major issues with his mask, inspiring countless memes — as well as the head of Brazil’s federal health regulator, the former foreign minister, the former communications director and the regional manager of the pharmaceutical company Pfizer.
The upshot of their accounts is obvious, yet still totally outrageous: President Jair Bolsonaro apparently intended to lead the country to herd immunity by natural infection, whatever the consequences. That means — assuming a fatality rate of around 1 percent and taking 70 percent infection as a tentative threshold for herd immunity — that Mr. Bolsonaro effectively planned for at least 1.4 million deaths in Brazil. From his perspective, the 450,000 Brazilians already killed by Covid-19 must look like a job not even half-done.
Spelled out this way, the effort looks shocking. But to Brazilians living under Mr. Bolsonaro’s rule it’s hardly surprising. After all, the president seemed to do everything he could to facilitate the spread of the virus. He has spent the last year speaking and acting against all scientifically proven measures to curb the spread of the virus. Social distancing, he said, was for “idiots.” Masks were “fiction.” And vaccines can turn you into a crocodile.
Then there was the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine, which Mr. Bolsonaro promoted as an early treatment and miracle cure for Covid-19 — despite all scientific evidence to the contrary and the express advice of two former health ministers. During the inquiry, two different witnesses somberly confirmed that they had seen the draft of a presidential decree stipulating that the drug’s leaflet should be changed to include its use against Covid-19.
It gets worse. According to both Mr. Wajngarten and Carlos Murillo, the regional manager of Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company repeatedly offered to sell its Covid-19 vaccine to Brazil’s government between August and November last year — but got no answer at all. (Perhaps the health ministry had more important things to do, like learning how to properly use masks.) Considering that Brazil was one of the first countries to be approached by the company, a quick response would have secured Brazilians as many as 1.5 million doses at the end of 2020, with 17 million more in the first half of 2021.Dan Savage, the syndicated sex advice columnist, refers to “the four magic words” gay guys will use during a sexual encounter: What are you into?” That’s a very different perspective than that of straight boys, who usually aim for one-word assent to options they define. I do fear, though, that since girls, as I’d previously found, are so often disconnected from their bodies’ desires and responses, their answer to an authentic conversation-starter might well be, “I have no idea.” What might happen, though, if teenagers learned to start talking to each other that way early on?
Absent guidance from trusted adults, boys look to the media as a default sex educator, where they are bombarded by images of female sexual availability and male sexual entitlement. With the rise of the internet, smartphones and video-sharing sites like Pornhub, parents worry about the potential impact of pornography on teens’ sexual expectations. Let me be clear: Curiosity about sex is natural. Masturbation? Great! What’s more, there is all kinds of porn — ethical porn, feminist porn, queer porn. But the most readily available, free content portrays a distorted vision of sex: as something men do to rather than with a partner and women’s pleasure as a performance for male satisfaction.
Boys frequently expressed ambivalence to me about their porn habits. “I think porn affects your ability to be innocent in a sexual relationship,” a high school senior commented. “The whole idea of exploring sex without any preconceived ideas of what it is, you know?”
Even if parents could block all the triple-X sites (and good luck with that), the reality is that exposure to sexual content in media consumption of any kind — TV, movies, games, social media, music videos — is associated with greater tolerance for sexual harassment, belief in rape myths and the objectification of women. “I think music has some of the biggest impact on how guys treat girls,” another high school senior told me. “In the car, my friends and I listen to all this stuff that’s just” — he rattled off several oh-so-unprintable lines about women and sex. “When you hear that, like, five, six, 10 times a day, it makes it hard to escape having that mind-set.”
The promise of hot sex with a cold heart animates college (and increasingly high school) hookup culture — which is why, according to Lisa Wade, a professor of sociology at Occidental College, getting wasted beforehand is so crucial: Alcohol girds young people against the near-fanatic generational fear of the awkward while creating what Ms. Wade calls the “compulsory carelessness” necessary for a possible one-off. Most of the guys I met knew that sex with an incapacitated person is assault. Yet because, in their minds, you need to be hammered in order to hook up, the trick became being (and finding someone who is) drunk enough to want to do it but sober enough to be able to express a credible “yes.” And who is to be the judge of that?
Drunk boys, as it turns out, tend to vastly overperceive a girl’s interest in sex, often interpreting expressions of friendliness as It’s on. Alcohol has also been shown to diminish their ability to hear “no” or notice a partner’s hesitation. Wasted young men are more likely than they would be sober to use coercion or force to get what they want and — still looking at you, Brett Kavanaugh — they are less aware of their victim’s distress.
In consensual drunken hookups, the sex still tends to be meh. It “can feel like two people having two very distinct experiences,” a second-semester college freshman who’d had multiple partners told me. “There’s not much eye contact. Sometimes you don’t even say anything. And it’s weird to be so open with a stranger. It’s like you’re acting vulnerable, but not actually being vulnerable with someone you don’t know and don’t care very much about. It’s not a problem for me. It’s just — odd. Odd, and not even really fun.”This seems mistaken. Yes, if we never figure out the truth of Covid’s origins, the dangers of media groupthink will be the only lesson we can draw for absolutely certain. But if we could find out the truth, and it turned out that the Wuhan Institute of Virology really was the epicenter of a once-in-a-century pandemic, the revelation would itself be a major political and scientific event.
First, to the extent that the United States is engaged in a conflict of propaganda and soft power with the regime in Beijing, there’s a pretty big difference between a world where the Chinese regime can say, We weren’t responsible for Covid but we crushed the virus and the West did not, because we’re strong and they’re decadent, and a world where this was basically their Chernobyl except their incompetence and cover-up sickened not just one of their own cities but also the entire globe.
The latter scenario would also open a debate about how the United States should try to enforce international scientific research safeguards, or how we should operate in a world where they can’t be reasonably enforced. Perhaps that debate would ultimately tilt away from China hawks, as David Frum argues in The Atlantic, because the lesson of a lab leak would be that we actually need “more binding of China to the international order, more cross-border health and safety standards, more American scientists in Chinese labs, and concomitantly, more Chinese scientists in American labs.” Or perhaps instead you would have an attempted scientific and academic embargo, an end to the kind of funding that flowed to the Wuhan Institute of Virology from the U.S.A.I.D., an attempt to manage risk with harder borders, stricter travel restrictions, de-globalization.
Either way, this debate would also affect science policy at home, opening arguments the likes of which we haven’t seen since the era of Chernobyl and Three Mile Island about the risks of scientific hubris and cutting-edge research. This is especially true if there’s any chance that the Covid-19 virus was engineered, in so-called gain of function research, to be more transmissible and lethal — a possibility raised by, among others, a former science writer for this newspaper, Nicholas Wade. But even if it wasn’t, the mere existence of that research, heretofore a subject of obscure intra-scientific controversy, would become a matter of intense public attention and scrutiny.
That scrutiny might not lead to wise decisions, just as the panic over nuclear power arguably led both energy policy and environmentalism astray. To return to the bet with which we started, the regulation of science has to exist in a balance between Martin Rees and Steven Pinker, between healthy pessimism about human blundering and healthy ambition about what human ingenuity can do. If the pandemic blossomed from a reckless blunder, any reckoning could easily go awry, with a crusade for safety pushing us deeper into technological stagnation.
But if we find out that a single laboratory and a few scientists are responsible for one of the greatest human catastrophes in generations, it’s no use to wish the reckoning away.A few years ago, I interrupted a panel discussion at the Guggenheim as it moved toward the dead-horse question of whether painting was still viable. How, I asked, uninvited, from the audience, could people talk of the end of painting when so many women were just beginning to paint? With hindsight I should have added that we were also still learning about the female painters of the past whose newly recovered works could very well influence the medium. History had in a sense not yet happened to their achievements.
Hindsight arrived one or two years later, when a largely unknown sector of that past was emphatically, unforgettably heard from — at the Guggenheim. This divine noise was the full-rotunda exhibition of the paintings of Hilma af Klint, which drew thousands of visitors and irrevocably altered the understanding of the genesis of abstract painting in the West. It was one of the most revelatory shows of many people’s lifetimes, my own included.
A similar jolt — if not of that magnitude — can now be felt in “Agnes Pelton: Desert Transcendentalist,” an exhibition at the Whitney Museum that is still plenty inspiring and thought-provoking. (The museum announced late Thursday that it was temporarily closing over concerns about the coronavirus.) This career-spanning survey of 45 paintings presents the underappreciated but inimitable art of the American painter Agnes Pelton (1881-1961) and offers a reminder that the history of modernist abstraction and women’s contribution to it is still being written.(SINGING) When you walk in the room, do you have sway?
killer mike I didn’t want to come, and I don’t want to be here. I’m the son of an Atlanta City police officer. My cousin is an Atlanta City police officer. And my other cousin is an East Point police officer. And I got a lot of love and respect for police officers.
kara swisher
You might remember Michael Render, or Killer Mike, from a speech that went viral four days after George Floyd’s death. Protests in Atlanta were escalating, and so was the damage and violence. The mayor needed help turning the temperature down.
killer mike It is your duty not to burn your own house down for anger with an enemy. It is your duty to fortify your own house, so that you may be a house of refuge in times of organization. And now is the time to plot, plan, strategize, organize, and mobilize. It is time to beat up prosecutors you don’t like at the voting booth. It is time to hold mayoral offices accountable, chiefs and deputy chiefs. Atlanta is not perfect, but we are a lot better than we ever were, and we are a lot better than cities are. I’m mad as hell. I woke up wanting to see the world burn down yesterday because I’m tired of seeing Black men die.
kara swisher
That impromptu eight minute speech wasn’t the first time Killer Mike made waves. He got his start in music and quickly broke out on OutKast’s Grammy-winning “The Whole World” in 2001.
killer mike Player, I grind. My focus is crime. Raw with the rhyme, I’m slick with the slime. My words are diamonds dug out of a mine. Spit ‘em, polish, look how they shine.
kara swisher
Now he’s one half of the critically acclaimed duo Run the Jewels, which The Times called “the most politically timely hip-hop act of the day.”
killer mike This just a chore not to make myself go insane. It’s crippling, make you wanna lean on a cup of promethazin, but my queen say she need a king, not another junkie, flunky rapper fiend.
kara swisher
Killer Mike’s lyrics have nuance, just like him. He’s a famous rapper. He’s also an activist, a family man, an enthusiastic gun owner and, a serial entrepreneur. He’s even opening a bank. Borrowing from Walt Whitman, he is large, he contains multitudes, and he happily contradicts himself. Killer Mike is a capitalist who backed Bernie Sanders’ socialist campaign. And after he endorsed Stacey Abrams in her run for Georgia Governor, Killer Mike welcomed the Republican Brian Kemp, who many say stole her seat, to get a haircut and a photo op at his barber shop. These days, it feels like everyone is forced to pick sides and stick to rigidly drawn lanes, but not Killer Mike, which is why I wanted to talk to him. Well, that and our mutual love of X-Men. OK, let’s start off. I want to tell you my favorite quote of all the quotes you’ve said is about “X-Men,” which is one of my favorite movie series, one of my favorite comics. And you say, “You may start off with Professor X, but Magneto got a [expletive] point.” Can you explain what you mean by that? Because I thought that was —
killer mike
That is not the quote I expected you to pull.
kara swisher
Oh, all right. OK.
killer mike
I’m glad you did, just because I was introduced to the “X-Men” by my dad, and the “X-Men,” much like “Planet of the Apes,” gave me a sense of racial and class disparities in the context of a comic book character, so it didn’t feel real world and white versus black. And what I meant by that quote is, we all want harmony and peace and for people to understand and for goodwill, and the hope that if I show you, for lack of a better word, I’m more human than not, even though I’m a mutant, you’ll have to have sympathy, compassion, and morality. Where because of Magneto’s past, he had to understand that humans are much like our cousins, the chimps, were capable of being very awful for reasons that are unknown.
kara swisher
Well, it’s interesting, because he’s seen as a villain, but he’s really not.
killer mike
He’s not.
kara swisher
And that’s what it is. His background is Holocaust, and he was experimented on.
killer mike
Absolutely.
kara swisher
Magneto was, and of course, that’s where he found his powers.
killer mike
Yes, so as I got older, I began to understand and sympathize and empathize with Magneto’s side, more even though as a kid, I was very enthralled by Professor X and his ambitions. I had to understand that in the real world, the brutal reality is that oftentimes the people who have been victimized have to be more aggressive in not being victimized.
kara swisher
And initially you would think you’re against him, but you’re right. Every time he made one of those speeches, I’m like, he’s got a point.
killer mike
He has a point.
kara swisher
These humans have to go. You know what I mean?
killer mike
[LAUGHTER] This is a very true thing. You know, I think what comics provide is the amazing opportunity for us to take our personal teams out of it and to really see the character of human behavior.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
You know, to me, they’re as worthy as any Shakespearean play and —
kara swisher
Agreed.
killer mike
— a lot of holy books, because you get that lessons of morality, and you get it at such a young age that it’s impossible to unthink it or unlearn it. So I see you’re a reader, too.
kara swisher
Yes, I am. But you also mentioned “Planet of the Apes,” which is one of my favorite series, all of them. I’ve seen all of them 26 times. And you know, it’s same thing with Dr. Zaius, when he’s saying at the end, be careful over what you find. Even though he’s the villain, he’s right. The destruction of the planet by humans created the situation that created “Planet of the Apes,” even though they were brutal and awful. So it’s an interesting way to think of the world, and it made me think a lot about power, like what is power? And so one of the things you do when you talk about politics is, you’re right on the edge of THAT and yet you always return to the positive.
killer mike
Well, I have to.
kara swisher
Why?
killer mike
Otherwise, I’m Magneto.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
And I mean that quite in the literal. We have the ability to burn this whole thing down tomorrow. And when I say “we“, I mean people. People could — war could end tomorrow. Every 18-year-old boy across the globe could not agree, and we could send the leaders of our nations to fight gladiator-style in coliseums. And I guarantee you, the oligarchs would end war tomorrow, right? Because it’s their blood on the line then. It’s not the blood of poor children —
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
— on the line. We as a collective have not been organized enough or have not done so. So I have to think from the positive, what is the best way that I contribute to the protracted struggle of being someone who pushes people to questions, the whys, so that they come to the enlightenment of there is a need for an end to war. So I find myself aspiring to be Charles Xavier, and in helping people understand the power that they have and controlling that power versus burning the whole thing to the ground, because the instinct is always to burn it to the ground.
kara swisher
All right, well, let’s get into your music, then. Because you broke out, you know, as a performer on OutKast.
killer mike
Yes.
kara swisher
But the album that put you on the map was the 2012 album “R.A.P. Music,” which was less commercial, much more political. There’s a song about Ronald Reagan and Iran-Contra, which I remember very well, because I’m super old.
killer mike The end of the Reagan era, I’m like eleven or twelve, old enough to understand the [expletive] that changed forever. They declared the war on drugs, like a war on terror. What they really did was let the police terrorize whoever. And they would take our drugs and money as they pick our pockets.
kara swisher
Talk to me about this shift in the music.
killer mike
Well, rap music was an acronym for “rebellious African people’s” music. So you didn’t have to be Black or African, but it was from, of course, someone who’s a descendant of African, but it was people’s music. In much the same way people interpret that as Black Power, but that’s all power to the people, to the proletariat. So that record was— I had other political records from my very first record on Columbia Records. I had moments from “God in the Building” to “Put the Pressure On” featuring Ice Cube, but that record was a consorted effort to put all of that in one place without the influence of a bigger company saying, “but you need a dance song. You don’t have a crunk song or a trap song.”
killer mike Real bad guy [expletive], living like a villain, never chilling. Yeah, I’m a public enemy because I go rampant, and I don’t give a [expletive] about a party in the Hamptons. And no one gives a [expletive] about a [expletive] Forbes list.
killer mike
It was just Michael Render pouring his experiences with the help of one producer who later became my rap partner, El-P, and it was put together in the imagination of Jason DeMarco. Jason DeMarco gave me an opportunity to producer and do a record at Williams Street Records, and the only requirement that we had was, you gotta call yourself Killer Mike as you were, not the Mike Bigga moniker, because we don’t care about you being safe. And I want you to make your version of Ice Cube’s “America’s Most Wanted.” And I got a chance to do that. And I think that record took off for me because it was the first time as an artist the audience got to see me in total.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
Who I was. And that’s me with all the nuances of someone who is politically sophisticated enough to make a Ronald Reagan, and yet Southern and ratchet enough to praise his wife on a club about strip clubs. You know what I’m saying?
kara swisher
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course you go with your wife to a strip club.
killer mike
Yeah, I do. There’s no other way to go.
kara swisher
Who else would you go to a stripe club with? I’m not gonna tell this story, but I go to a strip club to meet internet people. And they’re always like, “don’t tell my wife.” I’m like, “why don’t you bring your wife?”
killer mike
Exactly.
kara swisher
OK, we’re off on a strip club thing. I wanna get back to your music. So you’ve called your music the soundtrack to progress, but on your latest album, “RTJ4,” let’s play a section from “Walking in the Snow.”
killer mike
OK.
killer mike And usually the lowest scores the poorest, and they look like me. And every day on the evening news, they feed you fear for free. And you so numb, you watch the cops choke out a man like me until my voice goes from a shrink to whisper, “I can breathe.”
kara swisher
This is about Eric Garner, who died after he was put into a police chokehold six years ago, but the same words could apply to the police killing of George Floyd.
killer mike
Absolutely.
kara swisher
Talk a little bit about that.
killer mike
Well, I can’t I can’t talk about that without acknowledging not only Eric but Erica Garner. And I get chills talking about her, because she was his daughter. She kept his legacy and the legacy of justice alive. And she died of what they call a heart attack. It’s a broken heart. She was an amazing, an amazing woman. And one day when the battle between citizens and the police ends and police are better regulated and citizens feel safe and not overseen, she will be one of the bricks in the foundation that caused that to happen. So of course I wrote that, and references Eric, so he’s not forgotten. It ends up being applicable to Floyd. But I bring it straight to your next door to say, this is a human being that’s being affected. So not only are children in cages and stuff, and there’s murder porn that you’re watching on the television, now it is to the point where I am here in your living room. You’re watching me as the police murder me. And that is simply meant to put the gravity of what we see in the theater of music, so that you can listen to it and absorb it. We know that it is easier for the police to kill someone who looks like me in this country. And that is a terrible thing for us to allow, because if we believe in what the Bill of Rights and the United States Constitution has promised us, and if we understand that the history of policing growing out of slave catching and things of that nature, then we should be compelled as Americans with a higher ideal to change that relationship.
kara swisher
So why is that — you know, you could have written those lyrics now.
killer mike
Yes.
kara swisher
And before.
killer mike
Yeah.
kara swisher
So what is progress to you? Is there actually progress? Because you talk about the soundtrack of progress.
killer mike
Yeah, it’s a protracted struggle. There is progress. You know, Eugene Debs ran for president from prison in the early 1900s. Bernie Sanders actually stood a shot four years ago and a few months ago. It’s 100 years of progress, unfortunately, that it took, but that is progress.
kara swisher
But when you’re writing a lyric that then just continues to be accurate —
killer mike
Yeah.
kara swisher
— year after year after year, how does that feel?
killer mike
Well, it’s hurtful. But I mean, it was true in my grandfather’s time. But you get to feel like this is the way it is because it is.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
Not the way it should be, not the way it has to be. But I would argue that part of that is less about how I feel, because you’re gonna feel [expletive] as a woman, if you keep getting [expletive] on. And we know that the protracted struggle of women’s suffrage, women’s rights, and now equal rights and beyond, we know that that’s been over 100 years. There was a time the abolitionist movement was married with the women’s suffrage movement, and it split.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
And much of us know why. So we could have faster progress if we all attacked our common masters together and said, “I’m not going to accept this unless everyone gets this.” But we don’t. What are we not doing to progress us faster? Because we don’t have to stay here.
kara swisher
One of the things you said in this lyric is, “every day in the evening news, they feed you fear for free.” That’s a real condemnation of the media.
killer mike
Well, we do. We have a want. What am I wanting? Why do I keep going to the bloodiest of headlines? Why don’t I read two different newspapers for two different perspectives? Why do I simply find something that makes me comfortable in my opinion and belief and lean into that? And why am I not demanding better news stories of my media? We seem to enjoy watching or talking about or discussing the worst more than we do the better.
kara swisher
Except that these videos did create protests. It did lead to shock and horror.
killer mike
Absolutely, yeah.
kara swisher
A lot of social media, actually, is where that happened. So how do you balance the two? Because you’ve got to see these things.
killer mike
Well, that’s not — yeah, the opening of Emmett Till’s casket is a version of that.
kara swisher
Yes.
killer mike
That’s not what I’m protesting. What I’m protesting is the 363 days where they show you Black men as evil, villainous creatures that make half of your work office that day say, “well, he should have just complied.” That’s the “feed you fear for free.” That’s the fear. The act of seeing someone die on camera is a brutal act to see, right? But it is a necessary act, just like the pictures of lynchings were necessary, just like the opening of Emmett Till’s coffin. But the fear that I’m talking about you’re being fed for free is the fear that white people are fed to be afraid of everything non-white, non-Western, and non-American.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
And that fear — and I’m not saying this in condemnation or judgment, but scared white people scare me. Because violence come soon after. You know, when those women pick up their phones and say, “I’m gonna call the cops on you“, they’re using the power and privilege of being a white woman in that moment in a park, and the power of the state will be used to potentially murder you.
kara swisher
Let’s about that. So you grew up in the West side of Atlanta, a city you call a fortress for Black America. Let’s talk a little bit about police and the city itself, because you went viral in a very powerful speech recently with protests breaking out there over George Floyd. Rioters were vandalizing part of the city. There were peaceful protests going on. And you stood up, and you appealed for calm.
killer mike
I was mad. I didn’t wanna be there. Yeah, my friend made me come. You know, TI is a very dear friend of mine. He’s a business partner.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
And we are from the same neighborhood. We have a business called Bankhead Seafood, and I was taking other rappers around, taking them food. I was playing salesman, and drinking champagne and eating fish. And the next thing you know, Tip says, the mayor wants us to come down, and after about an hour of us arguing back and forth, you don’t let your friend go and do stuff by themselves.
kara swisher
Why didn’t you want to go? You were angry or?
killer mike
I was angry.
kara swisher
So why didn’t you want to go?
killer mike
Because I watched a man of 200 and some art pounds put his knee on the neck of a man for eight minutes and kill him. And you know, as a person who hunts and fishes, I wouldn’t allow a deer that I had shot to spend eight minutes dying. There’s a humanity in ending the suffering that that cop didn’t have. So I wanted everything to burn. A part of me did. I was very angry. It was more Magneto than not. And with that said, my father had been a former police officer. My cousins are on the force, and are good police officers. And as we walked into police headquarters, I saw a lot of good men and women of color. We have a large Black police force. It started from those first eight Black cops in Atlanta. And those people are people I know from the community, and not just in a police uniform. I know they’ve done good in the community. I’ve seen the product of their work. And I knew that my community, although angry and bubbling over, I knew that we have been a safe haven for Black organization and organizational power here. And I knew that if we allowed ourselves to fall into the hopelessness and despair of burning our city to the ground, Black America may not have that in the same way. And that scared me. Because for the first time in my life, I saw us angry enough to be chaotic enough to not organize, to simply watch it burn. And the problem with that is, if you’re already on the low rung of the totem pole and everything goes to chaos, how do you feed, clothe, and shelter the people that you’re fighting for?
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
How do you make sure they have the base bare minimal necessities? How do you make sure that beans and bread are gonna be provided? How do we make sure that water gets to you? And you know, I heard people say, well, he was standing up to defend businesses. Well, a week after that brother Rayshard was killed at that Wendy’s, the mother of his children and his wife were given a car. The people who gave him the car did not work for the city. It was not city money. It was not state money. It was private money. And one was Pinky, who owns the Slutty Vegan, a Clark Atlanta University graduate, and the other owned Big Dave’s Cheesesteak. His business was nearly destroyed. They smashed out his windows. He spent what it took to finish his windows. He gave money to other businesses that had suffered. And then within a week, he didn’t hold anger. He didn’t hold rage. He understood why the riots happened. But within a week he was giving a car to the family of a man who had been robbed of an opportunity raised to his children.
kara swisher
But you’ve gone there. I’m not sure if you’ve supported burning down police precincts in Minneapolis, for example, when you said what was radical was not that they burned targets. They burned down police stations, so the governments know we’re fed up with this.
killer mike
Absolutely.
kara swisher
How do you reconcile those things?
killer mike
I’m not calling for violence against the police as individuals, as human beings, as working men and women with families. That’s not what I’m doing. What I’m doing is saying that by any means necessary defend yourself against murder from the state. And when the proletariat is fed up —
kara swisher
Yeah.
killer mike
— the proletariat must in protest let the state know we are fed up. Burning a police building or a government building at all is a much more effective means as a proletariat of letting the people who you entrust with your money and to lead you is a much more effective means of letting them know I’m fed the [expletive] up than burning a retail outlet. That’s simple. You paid for the buildings you burnt up. Your tax dollars paid for them. So what you’re saying now is, we paid for this, we’re not satisfied with the outcome, we are letting you know, in much the same way the Boston Tea Party did, much in the same way of even those who sympathized with the Confederacy, the Confederacy attempted to do, that’s the American way. The American way is to say I’m fed up, I’m gonna burn some [expletive] down, so you know I’m serious. In a capitalistic system, that’s what you do. When you let the government know that we pay for the buildings, we pay your salary, we’ve had enough of this, it seems that measures get taken into consideration a lot faster, and the progress that could have taken hundreds years all of a sudden starts to take 10 months.
kara swisher
It also creates a backlash and an ability for, say, the Trump administration make ads about that.
killer mike
It does.
kara swisher
And portray things as anarchy in the cities. It’s not your preferred method of change.
killer mike
No. No, it’s not. It’s not my preferred, and I’m not saying to do it. I just say, if I see it done. You know, old people in the South gotta say you ain’t wrong. You know, they ain’t saying, I agree with it, but you ain’t wrong.
kara swisher
My grandmother said that.
killer mike
Exactly. You know, it’s one of those things where I can’t help that Trump is a marketing master.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
But I can say, remember why you did it, and take that into the booth. As vigilant and as you were about seeing the government understand your anger, take the same vigilance into bringing 10 people to the polls with you and vote downticket. Because as effective or ineffective as you think any president is, your city council person, your county commissioner, your local judge and prosecutor, your local sheriff have a much bigger effect on your life on a day to day basis. And we need you to be politically organized and nuanced enough to attack them. If you hate Trump policy, make sure it doesn’t get to your municipality.
kara swisher
Right. So you’ve talked about the importance also of having a podium. And you seem to think a lot about your power and how to use it. You use the word a lot in a lot of your speeches, including giving voice to the powerless.
killer mike
So before I take a podium, I seek the wisdom, the knowledge, the understanding, and the experience even from organizations that are working locally that people should pay attention to, I believe, nationally. The Gary Davis Next Level Boys Academy is an academy that provides an alternative to long prison sentences for boys who made a mistake. You may have a nephew who makes a stupid mistake. He sees a stupid thing on a movie. He decides he’s gonna take a gun and do something stupid, like rob a Family Dollar, right? The court may want to give your nephew 27 years. Gary says, no, this kid has dealt with some trauma. This kid has not had direction. We think that two years with us is a better alternative to 27 years of incarceration. His academy is turning boys’ life around. And if it were not for Fani Willis, who’s the new Fulton County District Attorney, who’s a progressive-minded district attorney, wants to find restoration versus imprisonment, if it wasn’t for her pushing this a few years ago, it never would have been set up. So when it came time to help her get elected, it made sense to help her get elected. I want to give voice and podium to that, so that’s why I big up Gary. You know, when you look at racial justice now, a lot of times racial justice becomes a beige word.
kara swisher
A beige?
killer mike
Yeah, it becomes beige. It gets watered down. Racial justice now specifically deals with racial justice from a Black perspective. And that’s very needed in this time, because Black people have grievances that are nuanced to us that other groups may not understand.
kara swisher
Talk about that. Because five years ago you said on Colbert that white people discovering just how bad it is for Black people in America are more blind than you thought, and George Floyd seems to have broken through to white people.
killer mike
It did, it did.
kara swisher
Do you think you’re seeing a shift?
killer mike
I hope I’m seeing a shift, because of Americans as a people, they’re tired of the [expletive]. Racism gets in the way of us all. Racism enforced by the state enslaves us all. Because if it can happen to George Floyd, it can happen to someone beiger than him next. The state is not an empire meant to rule over you. And a lot of times in our understanding of what government is and what this republic is, we lose sight of that, that this is a collective of individuals that should have equal say, equal play, equal push in matters of the state. And we’re not. We’re quickly giving our power over to the state.
kara swisher
Absolutely.
killer mike
I grew up in an all Black enclave, in a city that is virtually all Black. And I never had to worry about white people. I didn’t worry about what they thought of me. I didn’t worry about what they thought about my grandparents’ version of Christianity. My stores weren’t owned by white people, as we went to a big department store. The gas station was owned by a Black woman. My school was named for Frederick Douglass. Our rivals were Benjamin E Mays. So my entire world was engulfed in blackness. So all my heroes and villains were Black. I got a chance to understand that it is the character of someone. It isn’t just the color of someone. So I understand a white kid that may be from Illinois, or Iowa, or upstate Michigan or New York. They may have never had any, you know, Black people at all, not understanding. But what I wish to invite is the ability to say why, and then to find understanding. Now, there are other people that have simply been hypnotized by the news, or are comfortable in their own opinion, or have been told they’re like that because it’s like that. They understand, and that’s a willful ignorance.
kara swisher
They’ve gotten an image.
killer mike
Exactly. And that image, that image makes them feel better, and they never have to challenge themselves, right? It makes you feel better to say, “well, those people are just like that.” Because then you never have to challenge the fact that teachers in Georgia who taught schools, where schools become test taking centers, and were forced into changing tests, they went to prison. Mothers in California who are white and of means lied, tricked the college system into getting their kids in, and they get to choose the prison they go to for two weeks.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
That’s a hell of an insult. You have to say to yourself, have I got some chances that I know I wouldn’t have gotten?
kara swisher
Yeah.
killer mike
Yeah, have you walked down the street with a sack of weed in your pocket and knew you weren’t gonna get searched? Abso-[expletive]-lutely you have.
kara swisher
Yeah.
killer mike
So what we have to do is make it not less comfortable for white people, because I think that’s the interpretation of everything. I don’t know want stop and frisk for any American. But I definitely don’t want it in Harlem only.
kara swisher
More with Killer Mike in a moment. You quote a lot of MLK. It’s so laced through with Malcolm X, who I don’t think — people have always set them up as different. Talk about them, because you also — you use pieces of Malcolm X speeches. It’s interesting to listen to you talk right now.
killer mike
I have been influenced by both. I have been influenced by King. I’ve been influenced by X.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
People tend to see them as the antithesis of one another, and they are not. And they died much more alike than that. Malcolm died after having traveled the world, and in particular Kenya, and organizing with Pinto, who was assassinated three days after him, who was an Indian and Kenyan by birth, but was an organizer there to end a corrupt government and give power back to the people. Malcolm had a much bigger view globally, but in understanding that it wasn’t just Black versus the masters of power race, that it really was the proletariat, which King understood in matters of shutting down the war machine. So they died, both of them, more similar than different.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
And I have been influenced equally by both.
kara swisher
So when you’re talking about this, this idea of power, we’re talking about politics. So let’s talk about politics. You had an endorsement of Bernie Sanders, who I think talks a lot about this concept, of the larger picture.
killer mike
Yeah.
kara swisher
What drew you to Bernie Sanders?
killer mike
Sanders was offering everything that everyone has always said they would want or would make us a better or more equitable society. And what drew me to him was his honesty in what he wanted to do. You know, he told me. One time we were talking. He was like, “you’re gonna be a billionaire, and I’m gonna tax the [expletive] out of you, too.” And I giggled, because I was like, “you’re right, I am.”
kara swisher
How close are you?
killer mike
And here I am supporting you.
kara swisher
How close are you?
killer mike
I’m not very close.
kara swisher
All right, OK.
killer mike
I’m what we call in the South Negro rich.
kara swisher
OK.
killer mike
So I still live very conservatively. If I can buy a million a house, my house costs a quarter million dollars. If I can buy $100,000 car, I don’t buy until I’ve saved up $100,000. I don’t buy things — I don’t — my wife is very frugal, so.
kara swisher
OK. In 2016, you said voting for Trump or Hillary Clinton, you’re voting for the same thing. What did you mean by that? Do you still stand by it? And does the same thing apply right now with Joe Biden?
killer mike
I think they’re oligarchs.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
That’s it.
kara swisher
OK, explain that.
killer mike
Oligarchs are a class or people who rule over you, who are gonna give their kids jobs. They’re gonna intermarry. They’re gonna protect their class, and you’re gonna be a class that they pivot to every two to four years to get their vote, and you will constantly be used by them as cheerleaders for them to profit themselves and their closed circles first.
kara swisher
So you don’t see a difference between Biden and Trump at this point.
killer mike
There are differences. I don’t know if the differences make a huge difference to my community. You know, I would ask the average non-Black Republicans — there are lots of Black Republicans, I would say why do you not champion the platinum package that Trump put together?
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
And if you can’t give me a viable answer, you have to go home and ask yourself why. Why don’t I want a community of people to get 3 million jobs? Why don’t I want a community of people to get 500,000 new businesses? And why don’t I want a community of people to get $500 billion? Because I know if this community grows, I know that the greater community grows. So you’re gonna have to say to yourself, why? And on the Democratic side, I would say to myself, in a time where my arch nemesis has dropped a plan that has some things in it that make a hell of a lot of sense, why am I not talking about that versus saying he didn’t denounce the Proud Boys? And what is it about me that my own ego gets in the way of saying, what could I co-opt from that plan?
kara swisher
So you always say that. You always say, show what’s in it for Black people.
killer mike
Yes.
kara swisher
Let me give you something for Joe Biden, for example, versus Trump. And you can — I can do the same for Trump, the crime bill and things like that. Joe Biden could save Obamacare, appoint an attorney general who doesn’t pursue mandatory minimums, start using federal funding to push through police reforms, increase school funding. What else do you want from the Democrats?
killer mike
Joe Biden could apologize for the 1994 crime bill.
kara swisher
Yeah.
killer mike
I think that that would do huge. And this isn’t me saying this is what I want to see, bow to me, Joe. This is me talking, getting my car washed yesterday, and a young woman saying, “Michael, I’m just conflicted about who I want to vote for.” And she’s like my daughter’s age. She’s like, “Just to be honest with you, I’m angry that older people in our community keep telling me to vote for Joe Biden.” And with tears in her eyes, she said, I lost my dad for 30 years. So you know, you gotta think about it, she’s no more than 33. To prison. It decimated a community. Male influence left with prison sentences. You know, and people say, well, they were selling drugs. Well, some of the drugs was just marijuana. I’m gonna tell y’all, everybody in the ‘70s and ‘80s did cocaine. You know, and how dare us be a country that celebrates moonshining and bootlegging, and not celebrate the cavalier attitudes of drug dealers in the ‘80s and ‘90s, because it’s the same motive. The same motive was making money. The same motive was allowing people a pleasure, alcoholism and alcohol, and addiction to sugars has killed far more people, and yet our community was decimated. So when you say those things that Biden has are gonna help, all right, I got you. I hear it. I’ve been hearing that for 20 years of my political engagement. I’ve been hearing those exact same things, and very little, if anything has happened. I would also challenge the Democratic Party to say, why is it more important to keep Obamacare than it is to do free health care? My thing is, why do I keep settling for the top of a building when I say I’m shooting for the stars? And that doesn’t say vote for Trump over him, but that does say it becomes very provocative. Trump understands that if the Black American economy somehow grows stronger, I get to keep political power, my party gets to get political power, this community gets an injection of funds, and they’re gonna spend those funds not only within their community and the greater community. So do I think he likes Black people? I don’t care. Will his plan help Black people? I don’t know. Does he have some provocative things in there that interest me a little more than the bland stuff I’ve been hearing out of the Democrats? Absolutely. But I don’t want to go vote for Trump. I want the Democrats to step up this year.
kara swisher
Right, but you say you don’t care. I want you to say that again, you don’t care.
killer mike
I don’t care. I don’t care. I have to assume that a part of whoever’s talking to me has the self-interest of their community at hand, so what’s in it for me? And I can’t care what you think about me. I care what your policy does for me.
kara swisher
Is there any — there are policy differences. Would an apology be enough? You want active things from the Democrats that show like full health care?
killer mike
Yeah, I think Biden has a start. And I told Kamala. I told you Senator Harris, it’s the same thing. I think — what’s one of the biggest things you could do? You could start with a “hey, I [expletive] up.”
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
“I got this wrong.” Because if not, if you don’t do that, you’re perceived as arrogant.
kara swisher
Right. So something you did that upset some liberals, you met with Georgia Governor Brian Kemp, a pro-Trump Republican.
killer mike
Yeah.
kara swisher
Who was accused of stealing the election from Stacey Abrams, who I you think you supported.
killer mike
I did support Stacey.
kara swisher
People said you legitimized him by giving him a photo op getting a haircut at your barber shop.
killer mike
Yeah, yup.
kara swisher
Tell us about that. Tell us why you did that.
killer mike
Well, you cannot legitimize a governor. The governor is the governor. I can’t say, “well, you’re not my governor.” You’re my governor. I have to pay my taxes. My grandmother did not like every politician, but my grandmother engaged with every politician. She engaged with her mayor. She engaged with her city council. She engaged with her county commissioners. She engaged with her neighborhood associations. It was her duty, and she taught me it was my duty. My grandmother marched me into a Black bank at about five years old. She opened up a banking account for me. My grandmother walked me into a mayor’s office meeting with her and other meetings, because she thought it was imperative that I understood from a very young child how to control your economics, and how to control your community, right? So when you talk about meeting with the governor, people see me as singing a dance, and that I sing and dance. But I won’t allow myself to be belittled as simply that. I’m a 30 year advocate and activist in my community. And right now, currently, I’m half co-owner of the Swag Shop franchise. I’m a third owner in Bankhead Seafood. And I’d be damned if I’m not gonna sit with the governor of my state and give my perspective from a regular citizen and voter, from a small business owner. I’d be crazy not to. You’d be insane not to.
kara swisher
So your barbershops.
killer mike
Yes.
kara swisher
Millions of dollars worth of property across Atlanta, and now you want to start a community bank, Greenwood.
killer mike
Yes.
kara swisher
It’s funny that you’re starting a financial institution, because my favorite song of yours lately, and the video of the single “Ooh LA LA” I’ve watched about 20 times.
killer mike Old dirty [expletive], go in your jaw, shimmy, shimmy, ya. Got the semi in the hemi, go and gimme, gimme, ya. Pugilistic, my linguistics are Jeru the Damaja, and I rap it pornographic, bitch, set up the camera.
kara swisher
It’s sort of got this anti-capitalist anthem. You’re burning money. You’re burning credit cards. You’re burning piles of cash. How do you balance — again, we’re back to this balancing two sides. You’re enjoying burning money, and really burning it. Was that real money? No, that wasn’t real money.
killer mike
Some of it was real. I got a little too happy.
kara swisher
See, that would have been boss if you really burned real money.
killer mike
Well, I mean, we couldn’t burn that much real money.
kara swisher
Right.
killer mike
You know, as we just got famous as a band.
kara swisher
So how do you balance you smashing things up and working within the system?
killer mike
Yeah, well, enough of the proletariat hasn’t said enough.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
So the necessity of participating in commerce is what brought me here.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
So I’m not a capitalist in that I constantly look for the lowest possible wages and means in order to capitalize the most, but I’m a capitalist in that I understand that my goods and services are worth something in the market. And if I bring a better goods and service to the market, people will be willing to spend a dollar with me. And because of that, I’m able to hire Black laborers. I’m able to hire Black tradesmen and artists.
kara swisher
Which gives you power.
killer mike
Which gives me power. Absolutely.
kara swisher
OK. For those who don’t know, explain why it’s called Greenwood.
killer mike
Oftentimes people hear about the Tulsa Riots, which makes Black people feel incredibly victimized a lot of times, because it was a horrible event. It makes white people feel incredibly guilty, because it was a horrible event. I want people to take the victimization and guilt out of it, and I want to get to pre-riots Greenwood. Greenwood, as America was expanding West, was an amazing community of freed Black people, who got an opportunity to simply participate in the promise of America. They got a chance to set up their own communities, to create commerce, education, and religious facilities. And it thrived. It thrived. It thrived. It thrived until racism and hatred and envy ended it. And because it ended, that community never fully recovered. But the potential is not only in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The potential was in Harlem. The potential was in Inglewood. It lives right in Atlanta on Auburn Avenue and Edgewood Avenue. It has lived here for over 100 years. So naming the banking institution Greenwood needed to remind people that in front of the trauma and past the trauma, Greenwood has to stay in spirit and in philosophy a real thing. And the way you do that, it’s like Dr. Claude Anderson said, you start to organize your dollars. If we can take banking, as they take more brick and mortar locations out of Black communities and just out of communities period, there’s gonna be a need for banking right there in your hand. Now you have an alternative that’s for Black and brown people, not only to be depositors but also to be capital lenders, too.
kara swisher
Right, so what is this? Because community banking is a tough business, and most of it is loans to commercial real estate and things like that.
killer mike
Yeah.
kara swisher
So what is this, if it’s a really a —
killer mike
What is it on a very basic level for the average Atlantan is an alternative to check cashing places, and an alternative to predatory banking. And the next level after that is for people who are small business owners, medium business owners, or people who may not be in traditional businesses like tech and things to have a bank that’s willing to walk or risk it with you. So they’re gonna be capital lenders as well. And what we grow into, only the imagination can conceive of but I’d like to see us grow into one of the more competitive banks in the market as banking goes more into people’s hands, and more poor people are less check cashing places and more of our bank right here in my hand. And I hope to see it, like in cities of Atlanta, where you can find over 50 Black women-owned restaurants, and bars, and services, or the Black sports and athletes class turn into a business class. What I hope to see is that the capital partners, the lenders are more of Greenwood and less of the banks that have refused us 21% of the time.
kara swisher
But they have huge scale that allows them to charge better rates, to be more competitive. You may get the worst loans. You may get the more difficult ones. How do you make money doing this?
killer mike
Well, I don’t have — yeah, you’re asking some of the same questions I asked as we’ve had the ask for loans. Some we’ve gotten, some we have been refused for. But I take that more than having all the answers now, what I have to say is that we have something in the market that finally makes it available for poor people to bank. And I believe that the unbanked, as they bank and as they become more financially literate, they become better banking customers, they become home —
kara swisher
So literacy is an important part of this.
killer mike
Literacy is definitely an important part. And beyond that, I think that the unbanked go from, once banked and once understanding financial literacy, they go from renters to buyers.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
killer mike
Buyers stabilize neighborhoods that are dead or in descent. Buyers and a true tax base brings better schools. Better schools and stable neighborhoods bring in business and innovation in a different way. So the sky’s the limit. My grandmother moved to Atlanta in 1952. By 1980 something, she had paid off. By 1990 something, we were graduating high school, going into college, and my children have a much more stable life because of the sacrifice that my grandmother made. You know, her parents hid money in coffee cans under the bed. My grandmother banked Black national and kept some money in the coffee cans.
kara swisher
Are you gonna put your money in this bank?
killer mike
Absolutely I am. Absolutely.
kara swisher
And what seed funding? Are you putting in money yourself into the creation? This is a startup, correct?
killer mike
Yes, This is a startup. Yeah, I brought the equity of celebrity and a minimal amount.
kara swisher
So why banks? Because banking is a highly regulated business, and the government is always looking over your shoulder, make sure you’re not extending credit with too much risk. There’s all kinds of rules going in. If you really wanted to incubate Black-owned business, and literacy, and organization, why not pursue a venture fund?
killer mike
No, I mean, I’m getting educated. So part of this is gonna be me calling you in a couple of days, like “educate me on venture funds. This is what I’ve looked up.”
kara swisher
I’d be happy to, yeah.
killer mike
And I’m really gonna make that call.
kara swisher
Any idiot can open a venture fund. That’s what I would tell you. Have met some of them? Venture capitalists? You need a pair of khaki pants, though. You need to get —
killer mike
I do have a pair. Shouts out to Ralph Lauren for the shirts and khaki pants. I want to say that I am a learned man, because I understand that I don’t know anything, and I’m always in the process of learning. Just like I learned about the town of Greenwood, just like I learned about Black banking and the importance of, as I learn, much like I do with social issues, the stuff that I vet out, that I see is having some value, I try my best to bring to the greater audience. Which is why I’m bringing people Greenwood, because I want to help us in every way we can. I want to die knowing that my grandchildren are better off for my hard work. But there will be a shame if I don’t make sure that my community is not better off for my hard work.
kara swisher
All right. Thank you so much, Killer Mike. We really appreciate it.
killer mike
Love and respect. Thank you so much.
kara swisher
Thanks for taking the time.
killer mike
All right, bye-bye.
kara swisherDuring the Covid-19 pandemic, debates over school closures and student safety grew in an understandable way. But this back and forth left no oxygen for robust conversation about lagging salaries for K-12 educators — an issue that was finally getting the attention it deserved before Covid hit. But now that each week brings more vaccine jabs and more news of school districts fully reopening in the fall, it’s time for this issue to get back in the spotlight.
Covid-19 revealed how teachers — in addition to nurturing, protecting and mentoring our children — are essential to a smoothly running society. It’s time to pay them accordingly. Significant raises can keep more people from ending up like me and countless others: a passionate educator who turned to another line of work largely in response to what I saw as incommensurate pay.
In 2019, Kamala Harris, then a Democratic presidential candidate, said at a rally on the campus of Texas Southern University what teachers sadly know to be true: “We are a nation and a society that pretends to care about education.” In a PDK poll from that year, most educators reported that they don’t want their children to enter the profession. About half of teachers surveyed said they had “seriously considered” quitting. A troubling number follow through.
During her campaign, Ms. Harris proposed something that, if enacted, could reverse this trend and prove we do care about education: federally subsidized $13,500 teacher raises. This would be a sound prescription for our near-term teacher shortage and serve as a long-term investment in our children’s futures, increasing our nation’s lagging productivity.I was looking for my grandmother. That meant spending a warm fall day in a reading room among reference books, microfilm reels and acid-free folders.
I had stolen the day from a meeting in Charleston, S.C., to stop over in Raleigh, North Carolina’s capital and home to its archives. I felt anxious. It wasn’t the time crunch, though the doors would close at 5:30 sharp. I rushed through the Guilford County voting records, driven by a need to discover my grandmother’s story of the 19th Amendment. Halfway through the afternoon I knew I had struck out.
As a historian, I break silences. I was writing a history of Black women and the vote, and spent most days in old records recovering their words, their actions and an entire social movement. Usually I work as part of a community of historians who tell stories about Black women’s struggles for power. Together, we make a good bit of noise every time we open a dusty box, unfold a long-ago creased letter or turn the page of a diary.
But this search was mine alone. Where had my grandmother been on Election Day in 1920? When did she finally vote? These questions gnawed at me. They led me to hours of looking for clues in the faces of the old family photos that hang on my office wall.Since its origins in the ninth century, Dadivank Monastery has withstood Seljuk and Mongol invasions, Persian domination, Soviet rule and, this fall, a second brutal war between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Now the majestic stone complex — which includes two frescoed churches, a bell tower and numerous medieval inscriptions — faces something that could be even worse: a dangerous peace.
Perched on a rugged slope west of Nagorno-Karabakh, Dadivank is one of the hundreds of Armenian churches, monuments and carved memorial stones in a disputed region that will come under the control of predominantly Muslim Azerbaijan according to a cease-fire agreement reached this month. Some of those structures — like the Amaras monastery and the basilica of Tsitsernavank — date to the earliest centuries of Christianity. For many Armenians, turning over so much of their heritage to a sworn enemy poses a grave new threat, even as the bloodshed has for the moment come to an end.
Their concern is understandable. Under the cease-fire, hundreds of thousands of Azerbaijanis uprooted by a previous war in the early 1990s will be able to return. In a victory speech on Nov. 25, President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan suggested that Armenians have no historical claims to the region, asserting that the churches belonged to ancient Azerbaijani forebears and had been “Armenianized” in the 19th century.
Between 1997 and 2006, the Azerbaijani government undertook a devastating campaign against Armenian heritage in Nakhichevan, an Azerbaijani enclave separated from the main part of the country by Armenian territory: Some 89 churches and the thousands of khachkars, or carved memorial stones, of the Djulfa cemetery, the largest medieval Armenian cemetery in the world, were destroyed. And since the recent cease-fire, images circulating on social media suggest that some Armenian monuments and churches in territory newly claimed by Azerbaijan have already been vandalized or defiled.Was that dip matched by concurrent weight gain among Americans who suddenly couldn’t make it to their weekly weigh-ins or stock up on their meal-replacement shakes? Depends on whose data you believe. A study published in the journal Obesity found a global decline in some healthy behaviors: Respondents ate more processed food and exercised less. And a recent survey from the market research firm Ipsos found that about a third of Americans said they had gained weight during the pandemic.
But research from a company that makes internet-connected scales, Withings, painted a different picture. The French company analyzed data from five million smart scales, hybrid smartwatches and smart thermometers, and found that people actually lost weight in 2020, or were more likely than in other years to hit their weight-loss goals, if they had them. (Of course, those who own such devices are a self-selecting group that most likely were trying to lose weight.)
In any case, the weight-loss industry isn’t going to let a lack of data dull its zeal to convince Americans that yes, we got fat, and that now we need to get up off our couches and get back into shape — by buying their app, or signing up for their meal-delivery service or enrolling in their program. These corporate entities have been joined by the freelance scolds, the people who are not going to miss a chance to feel superior to their friendly neighborhood fatties. Magazines are full of diet-app roundups. Here is the famous physician wagging her finger at Krispy Kreme for offering free doughnuts to the vaccinated.
My Twitter feed is suddenly full of ads for intermittent fasting apps; on Instagram, it’s wall-to-wall shapewear and fat-shredding supplements. Then there’s the Facebook friend who really wants to talk about the Keto diet, or Optavia, or the Beachbody plan, and would be happy to bring me into the fold. (Yes, the weight-loss industry has branched into multilevel marketing.)
You can consume a lot of this marketing without ever hearing the words “weight” or “diet” or “calories.” The diet industry has gotten impressively subtle, even as it’s incessantly in your face. Buzzwords like “wellness” and “strength” have replaced “diet” and “calories.” It’s all about being the best you that you can be — a you that is significantly thinner than the you right now.At a news conference recently President Biden made a statement that might have seemed unremarkable: “Let’s get something straight here,” Mr. Biden said. “Until the region says unequivocally, they acknowledge the right of Israel to exist as an independent Jewish state, there will be no peace.”
In those 28 words, Biden described in a nutshell the entire Middle East peace process, past, present and future. With that statement, the president was not setting a condition for a peace agreement or referring to a clause carefully drafted by jurists that includes this acknowledgment of the right of Israel to exist. Instead, he was articulating a principle that is too often overlooked: Achieving peace will require a sincere and genuine internalization by everyone in the region, including the Palestinian national movement, of Israel’s legitimacy as a Jewish state.
The crux of the conflict is two genuine but competing national narratives.
The Jewish narrative is this: Our only national homeland is Eretz Yisrael, the Land of Israel, from which we were forcibly expelled by an empire. It is the place we yearned to return to during two millenniums of dispersion, oppression, persecution and massacre. This yearning is so strong that Jewish couples vow, in their most personal moments, under the wedding canopy, never to forget Jerusalem. When Theodore Herzl, a gigantic leader, converted that yearning into a movement — Zionism — we were able to finally fulfill our dream of returning to Israel.
The Palestinian narrative is as sincere as ours: We have lived in this land, in Falasteen, for centuries, they say. It is ours. The Jewish claim is, at best, folklore, if not a modern fabrication. Zionism is in their eyes a colonialist project. Jews do not belong to Falasteen; Jerusalem is Palestinian.John C. Hirsh
Washington
The writer teaches medieval literature at Georgetown University.
Vaccine ‘Passports’ for College and Travel
To the Editor:
Re “For Colleges, Inoculation Mandates Often Hinge on the Party in Power” (news article, May 23):
To colleges and universities worried about political pressure (or driving students elsewhere) if they require the coronavirus vaccine, I have a simple suggestion: Require all students and staff to be tested for Covid daily and to wear a mask on campus, but waive this requirement for anyone who is fully vaccinated.
Treating the vaccine like a passport to freedom (which it is) rather than a mandate will reduce the backlash. Requiring those who opt out to take other precautions will keep everyone safe, while providing a huge incentive to those otherwise reluctant to get vaccinated.
Page Fortna
New York
The writer is a professor of political science at Columbia University.
To the Editor:
The U.S. government is requiring all American citizens coming back from abroad to present a negative Covid test taken in a foreign country within 72 hours of the return flight. This requirement applies to everybody, even those citizens who were fully vaccinated in the United States before going on a trip.
The cost and quality of such tests vary by country, but I know that it is $150 in Nicaragua per person. For a family of four that went on vacation that is a $600 expense.
It is also an inconvenience for someone traveling for a short business trip, as the traveler may need to spend additional time awaiting test results.
The U.S. government is not issuing a vaccine passport that will simply prove that the person is fully vaccinated. This is a complete absurdity. What is the reason for not issuing a vaccine passport?
Leonel Arana Guzman
Coral Gables, Fla.
Why Is the Birthrate Declining? (And That’s Good.)
To the Editor:
Re “Pandemic Led to Faster Drop in U.S. Births” (front page, May 5):
You report that the continuing decline in the birthrate, which began after the Great Recession, “has led demographers to wonder whether something else is going on.” The standard analysis usually centers on economic issues: the costs of raising children, or delaying having children to advance women’s careers.There are few bigger jobs on the New York ballot this year than that of Manhattan district attorney. Cyrus Vance Jr., one of only two men who have held the office since 1975, isn’t seeking re-election. In a borough where Democrats vastly outnumber Republicans, the winner of the June 22 primary contest is very likely to cruise to victory in November, and there is a crowded field of talented lawyers who are vying to replace him.
Whoever wins the job will face a rise in shootings, homicides and other violent crimes to thwart. While warmer days are bringing back block parties and crowded parks in other boroughs, much of Midtown is still eerily empty and dotted with vacant storefronts. And as the pandemic wanes in New York, right now there are few guarantees that the rhythms of normal life will return in a manner that ensures all its residents feel protected and served by the criminal justice system.
Then, of course, there is the reality that the system was not serving many New Yorkers well long before coronavirus ever arrived in the city.
Manhattan will need a distinctive kind of district attorney: one who knows how to use the levers of the office to drive down the current spike in violence while moving forward with the hard and overdue work of criminal justice reform. The best person for the job is Alvin Bragg.Adella’s portrait — the one that’s the cover of my book “Princess of the Hither Isles: A Black Suffragist’s Story from the Jim Crow South” — hung in my parents’ apartment, so she’s always been a visible, physical presence in my life, even though she died when my father was only 6 years old. And, of course, I was named for her. When I was in my early 40s, a young historian who was working on a Ph.D. dissertation about Black women in the suffrage movement was the first one to show me Adella’s writings. I hadn’t had that kind of specifics before, and I got totally hooked on trying to find out more about her as a suffragist. My father was dead by that time, so I asked my mother, “Did you know all this?” And her response was, “Of course.” Not only was Adella involved, but my mother’s mother was, too: They were both light-skinned enough to pass, so the two grandmothers, well before my parents were born, would go together to white suffrage conferences in the South, and then come back and share the information they learned with the Black community.
But even before I knew the details of my family’s story, voting and political involvement were very much a part of my growing up. One of my first memories is of my hand reaching up for my mother’s as she walked with me to the New York Public Library, down through this back labyrinth to where the voting booths were. I always knew that this was something very precious, and not to be taken for granted.Hamas is a radical Islamic terror organization that is fighting not to establish a Palestinian state but against the existence of Jewish “infidels” living in Israel.
In 2006 the so-called Quartet — the United States, the United Nations, the European Union and Russia — set forward parameters for Hamas that included acceptance of previous peace agreements between Israel and the Palestinians, commitment to nonviolence and recognition of Israel. Hamas refused.
These parameters were published after Israel withdrew from the Gaza Strip, uprooted the settlements and pulled out its military forces, and Hamas won the Palestinian elections. Had Hamas adopted these principles, the lives of the residents of the Gaza Strip might today look different, and Gaza could flourish. But for Hamas, ending the conflict is something to which it will never agree.
Without accepting these conditions, there’s no hope for peace with Hamas, therefore we cannot, and should not, give it legitimacy.
When one looks at any conflict from afar, it is only natural to identify with the weaker side. But there is no doubt, as President Biden rightfully expressed, that a country has the right to defend itself. In this case, we must defend ourselves against terror by a group that does not accept our very existence. Criticizing any government policy is legitimate (I myself was a political opponent of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu), but denying the right of a country to defend its citizens is not.
We must cooperate and support everything that strengthens pragmatism and weakens extremists. This seems so obvious as to appear basic. And yet the U.S.-Israeli policy in the past few years was completely the opposite. The Trump administration supported efforts of the Israeli government to move toward annexation of land. Had all those efforts come to pass, we would have reached the point of no return. The land would no longer be divisible, and the political future of two states would have been closed to us forever. Further, this policy weakened and delegitimized the Palestinian Authority and included cutting off financial support.
Indeed, the check on rampant expansion came from what would once have been a fantastical source: The Gulf states’ condition for normalization with Israel, through the Abraham Accords, was that Israel take annexation off the table. With Mr. Biden’s inauguration in January, the vision of a two-state solution supported by the United States has made a comeback. The statements of Mr. Biden and his secretary of state, Antony Blinken, send a message of hope to the pragmatic forces in the region.For the past five years or so, I have been an interested observer of a vast unnamed secret club: a large number of women in their 30s who are pregnant, or trying to get pregnant, but don’t want anyone to know.
These women take a sudden interest in drinking “gin and tonics” at the bar, when everyone knows Manhattans are their drink. They have innovative new diets to announce in response to dinner party invitations (“I’m going vegan for January”). They refuse to go on ski trips or bike rides, claiming an undefined illness. The cleverest among them even hide pomegranate juice in the refrigerator — in the right glass, it’s a dead ringer for a cabernet — and sneak to the kitchen for “wine” refills.
A few days ago, I found out I am pregnant. The apps tell me I am six weeks along (from my last period, the date doctors use to calculate how far along a pregnancy is). Yet, despite all the uncertainty, fear, and perhaps even backlash that may come my way for announcing this not just so early but also so publicly, I’m declining membership in the hidden pregnancy club once and for all.
Most pregnancies today stay hidden at least through the first trimester, and sometimes beyond. The reasons vary widely. Some women keep their pregnancies a secret because they fear miscarriages or other complications, including nonviable pregnancies. These possibilities are real — roughly 10 percent to 20 percent of pregnancies end in miscarriage — and many women prefer to stay silent, rather than run the risk of sharing early, only to have to share painful news later.“If a person’s behavior doesn’t make sense to you, it is because you are missing a part of their context,” the social psychologist Devon Price writes. You get that context by reaching out and listening. All this requires, first, some small talk. You can use these small, discrete exchanges to signal the kind of relationship you want to have and to acknowledge the tumult we’re each experiencing.
Even with death. Megan Devine, a grief therapist and the author of the book “It’s OK That You’re Not OK,” told me how she learned this viscerally when her partner died at 39. When they were hiking together in Maine, he was swept away in a river and drowned. In the aftermath, she could feel people straining to find ways to make her feel better. Some assured her she would find someone else, while others said to let them know if they could do anything to help.
“The glaring wrongness of it was stunning,” she told me. “People feel really helpless in the face of someone else’s pain, and they want to make that pain go away so they can stop feeling so helpless.”
She found that, for her, the most comforting exchanges didn’t have a motive to fix anything. Ms. Devine told me about one short encounter with the owner of a local bookstore while she was waiting in line for coffee. He came to stand next to her and said that while he hadn’t known her partner well, he’d always been impressed with him. He added, “I just want to tell you this is going to take a lot longer than anybody will tell you before you start to feel normal in any way again.”
Then he got his coffee and left. “It was great to hear somebody tell me what I already knew to be true. It was a validation of reality,” Ms. Devine said.
Small talk is not just something we do with acquaintances, co-workers and people at the store. It’s also how we begin updates with our extended family or longtime friends, people with whom we were once close but maybe now are not so.
These are the conversations you enter with trepidation, watchful of what to share and whether to be on guard. I learned from Pam Daghlian and her stepfather George Shankland, to start by just saying how you want to talk together.Native women were highly visible in early 20th-century suffrage activism. White suffragists, fascinated by Native matriarchal power, invited Native women to speak at conferences, join parades and write for their publications. Native suffragists took advantage of these opportunities to speak about pressing issues in their communities — Native voting, land loss and treaty rights. But their stories have largely been forgotten.
After the 19th Amendment was ratified on Aug. 18, 1920, and celebrated by millions of women across the country, the Indigenous suffragist Gertrude Simmons Bonnin, also known as Zitkala-Sa, a citizen of the Yankton Sioux Tribe, reminded newly enfranchised white women that the fight was far from over. “The Indian woman rejoices with you,” she proclaimed to members of Alice Paul’s National Woman’s Party, but she urged them to remember their Native sisters, many of whom lacked the right to vote. Not only that, she explained, many were not United States citizens, but legally wards of the government, without a political voice to address the many problems facing their communities.
Bonnin and other Native suffragists would continue to remind audiences that federal assimilation policy had attacked their communities and cultures. Despite treaty promises, the U.S. dismantled tribal governments, privatized tribally-held land and removed Native children to boarding schools. Those devastating policies resulted in massive land loss, poverty and poor health that reverberate through these communities today.For millions of Americans, the next six months are going to be great. The power Covid had over our lives is shrinking, and the power we have over our own lives is growing. The image that comes to mind is recess. We’ve been stuck emotionally indoors for over a year. Now we get to sprint down the hallway and burst into the playground of life.
People in large parts of the world will still be enduring the ravages of the pandemic, but those of us fortunate enough to be in countries where vaccines are plentiful will be moving from absence to presence, from restraint to release, from distance to communion. Even things that didn’t seem fun are going to be fun. Not being able to get the bartender’s attention because the bar is packed — that will be fun! I’m a Mets fan, but going to Yankees games will be fun! (As long as they lose.) Going to age-inappropriate concerts will be fun! I don’t care if Generation Zers don’t want to sit next to some damn boomer at their Cardi B concert. I’m going anyway.
Even better than the fun is the birth of a cultural moment. Many are gripped by the conviction that if they are working and their children’s schooling returns to normal, they do not want to go back to their old lifestyles. No more frenetic overscheduling and pointless travel. No more shallow social whirl.
This is the moment to step back, be intentional and ask: What’s really important, and how should I focus on what matters? It’s a matter of ranking your loves and then making sure your schedule matches your rankings. “How we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives,” Annie Dillard once wrote.We could keep it simple and give the gig to Miss America, who’s already been chosen and already has a tiara. Or we could have a televised reality contest (a roy-ality contest — see what I did there?) to elect our king and queen. We could recruit the glittering couples we think would be best suited for the job of representing America on the world stage (Beyoncé and Jay-Z! Jennifer Lopez and A-Rod! George and Amal Clooney! Danny DeVito and Rhea Perlman! Ina Garten and Jeffrey!).
We would put the would-be royals through their paces — can she keep her cool while shaking hands in four-inch heels for three hours? Can he entertain foreign dignitaries, even if he doesn’t speak their language? Can they wrangle a gaggle of corgis or visiting college football champs? Do they look good in funny hats?
We let people vote. We move the winners into the White House and relocate the president into some nearby, more modest digs. Then, we let the president govern, while our king and queen cut the ribbons and host state dinners, pardon the Thanksgiving turkeys and light the Christmas tree. We give them a salary and strict instructions about the values they are to uphold (one single brooch like Princess Michael of Kent’s, and you’re out). And we give them crowns and titles because symbols have weight and meaning, and because fairy tales and hallmark movies have trained us to believe that precious metal headgear and titles confer prestige and desirability. There’s a reason we aren’t all bingeing a Netflix series called “The Baseball Cap”; a reason that — no offense, Iceland — Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty dream of a prince and not a president.
Elected royal couples would eliminate the problem of the unpaid first ladies, shifting the burden of being a hostess, a charity patron and a fashion plate onto the shoulders of someone who has skills for it, allowing the president’s spouse to continue on whatever path he or she previously chose — health care administrator, librarian, lawyer, Pilates-class frequenter.
Even better, it would eradicate the possibility of a president who would rather be a king. Any candidates who prefer campaigning to governing, who would rather speak at a rally than sit through a briefing, or who understand the hierarchies of Fox News but do not seem to have read the Constitution can run to be a royal, not a president. Give the power, with no crown, to the hard-working, camera-shy introverts; give a crown, with no power, to the preening spotlight hogs. For all we know, Prince Charles, who’s been kind of a yawn as a royal, could have been a solid politician, and our disastrous president might have been at least a contained disaster as King Donald the First.
Jennifer Weiner is a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “Mrs. Everything.”
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.In the middle of a catastrophic public health crisis, the Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to overturn the entire Affordable Care Act. This is dangerous for many reasons — but for women, it’s devastating. They would be stripped of the protections they have had in the decade since passage of the law, known as Obamacare.
Before the law, insurance companies routinely discriminated against women. Those who didn’t work for employers that offered health coverage or who weren’t old enough or poor enough to qualify for Medicare or Medicaid struggled to buy health insurance in the private market, where insurance companies made all the rules.
In those days, insurers could charge women up to two or three times more than men for identical health policies. Women discovered that many of the services and medicines they needed were not included, like coverage for pregnancy, which was not part of most individual policies and was impossible to purchase once a woman became pregnant.
Insurance companies routinely denied coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions, a practice that affects more women than men. About 30 million women have a pre-existing condition — like side effects from having taken Accutane as a teenager, depression or breast cancer — compared with about 24 million men, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.The third challenge is the relationship Haredi communities have with their surroundings. A demographic rise of the Haredi world makes the population both more noticeable and more influential. In a democracy, numbers have meaning, and in Israel and New York, the Haredi are a highly effective voting bloc. Socially, Haredi neighborhoods and towns tend to be less than hospitable to outsiders, and as the neighborhoods expand, clashes with neighbors are common.
So these communities are gradually becoming harder to ignore. And the pandemic might be the ultimate demonstration of the emerging problem. In Jerusalem and New York, where these Jews live in great and fast-growing numbers, a puzzled public begins to feel these communities have become too independent.
Haredi Jews have large families and live in densely populated areas. This enhances their model of togetherness and separateness. It also makes them more vulnerable to the coronavirus. By and large, like many closed communities, Haredi Jews are suspicious of outside institutions. (Some of this is born of a long history of persecution.) When outsiders demanded they shut down schools or cancel weddings or stop attending their synagogues, many of the leaders were thinking that such a decree could come only from people who do not understand the importance of these practices. They refused to comply.
To these characteristics we must add Haredis’ suspicion of science (a feature of modernity) and their general stiff-necked mentality — the essence of resisting the temptations of a changing outer world.
So it is not surprising that a sudden demand to change their community’s behavior was met by many Haredi Jews — and, notably, by many important Haredi leaders — with suspicion and open revolt. Some of them refuse to wear masks; some evade testing.
Others send their children to school even when it is prohibited or attend mass funerals, where they clash with the police in New York and Jerusalem. Many attend crowded synagogues. No wonder that the rate of infections in ultra-Orthodox communities has skyrocketed.
Haredi Jews are well practiced in defying the larger society in which they live, and defiance is the tool they pulled out when new pandemic rules were dictated. They did it by using political clout and harsh rhetoric, arguing that the authorities were being discriminatory.Still, I’d been picturing 50 as the year when I’d be done. I’d quit dyeing my hair and donate my high heels; I’d greet the occasional chin hair with a Buddhist master’s zen and treat my body like a place I could exist without apology instead of something akin to a seedy apartment complex, a place I needed to constantly manage and improve, with unruly bits to be waxed and plucked, painted and dyed, trussed in spandex and lifted with underwire.
I have always tried to tell myself that celebrity bodies are a little like art galleries. I can appreciate and be inspired by their beauty. I can acknowledge the time and money that went into their creation. When I’ve finished looking, I can go home, secure in the knowledge that nobody expects my living room to look like that.
Then I saw the meme that made the rounds on Monday. “50 Years Old in 1985,” read one side, with a shot of Rue McClanahan from “Golden Girls,” in period-appropriate feathered hair and a dowdy-looking sweater. “50 Years Old in 2020,” read the other side, with Jennifer Lopez in a silver bodysuit, toned thighs gripping the pole, honeyed locks streaming, and bronzed skin gleaming, looking impossibly … impossible. If Blanche Devereaux is now, through some cruel twist of the worst timeline, on the Not side of Hot or Not, I guess Dorothy Zbornak is completely out of the question. And Dorothy had been my plan all along!
The answer, I think, is to watch these types of performances like a man.
Women watch a 15-minute show featuring elite entertainers and, in some cases, end up feeling bad about ourselves.
Men, meanwhile, watch a three-hour game, played by elite athletes with single-digit body fat, and most won’t feel a single twinge of self-doubt, or miss a single chip from the nacho platter.
Women see inspiration or goals we’ve failed to attain or a pretty stick to beat ourselves up with. We hear a voice (sponsored by Weight Watchers and Revlon and Planet Fitness and Jenny Craig) whispering This can be yours, if you just work hard enough. Men see entertainment, athletes who exist on a different plane than mere mortals. Their inner voice whispers, Are there any more nachos? I don’t even think it would occur to them to feel bad, or try to emulate what they saw.
And so, my fellow Gen X ladies, if you want to be J. Lo, more power to you. If you want to be Blanche, be Blanche. But if it’s always been about Bea Arthur, come sit back here, with me, in your Eileen Fisher tunic and the newish bifocals you haven’t quite mastered. We’ll wait till the crowd goes home, and we’ll dance like nobody’s watching.Ms. Rowling’s association with Ms. Forstater doesn’t come as a complete surprise; in June the author was criticized for liking a tweet by an anti-trans YouTuber, which her publicity team tried to pass off as a “clumsy and middle-aged moment.” But this week was the first time she explicitly broadcast her viewpoint to her 14 million Twitter followers.
As a devoted Harry Potter fan who also happens to be transgender, it was like a punch in the gut.
For the past decade, I’ve been an active player in the Harry Potter fan community, serving as the spokesperson for an independent nonprofit inspired by the boy wizard, sitting on the brain trust for a prominent Harry Potter fan conference and making videos about the impact the series has had on my life. I’ve seen the mind-blowing creativity of fans — from wizard rock music to cosplay to fan fiction that will make you weep — as well as their unparalleled capacity for positive change. Fans have organized in Harry’s name to donate over 400,000 books around the world, campaign in support of marriage equality and even convince Warner Bros. to switch to ethical sourcing for its Harry Potter-branded chocolates.
It was this community of loving, passionate people who accepted me with open arms when I came out as transgender at the age of 25. While I was nervous about coming out to some relatives and acquaintances, I never doubted that the Harry Potter fan community would accept me for who I was. After all, we all adhered to the values we learned from the books about being yourself, loving those who are different from you and sticking up for the underdog.
The book series, which I started reading shortly after its debut in the United States when I was 9 years old, was an escape from my lonely childhood of gender confusion. I used to dream about characters from the books showing up on my doorstep to whisk me away to the wizarding world, as they do for Harry in the first book. As I grew up and the series continued, I learned about the importance of critical thinking and standing up for your beliefs — as when Harry has to fight back against a government-sanctioned disinformation campaign denying the return of the evil wizard Lord Voldemort.
I internalized the half-giant Hagrid’s stance on self-acceptance in “The Goblet of Fire”: “I am what I am, an’ I’m not ashamed.” I felt Harry’s grief for his classmate Cedric and godfather Sirius after the deaths of my own classmates and relatives. I saw parallels between the politics of a war-torn wizarding world and the post-9/11 landscape unfolding around me.Elders tell us to speak of the landscape in present terms. Bears Ears is not something of the past; we are Bears Ears, you are Bears Ears. We are rooted to the land, the medicines, the water and all beings that give life. Just like the spiral pattern on our finger tips and at the top of our heads, we live life in a circular way of thinking, planning and reflecting. We are always taught to gift back as a way to renew and sustain the spiritual energy, cycle of seasons and the natural order of life.
This is what we call the rematriation of the Earth, by which we mean nurturing the cycle of life, restoring our relationships with the land and our nonhuman relatives. Opponents of the restoration of Bears Ears such as Utah Senator Mike Lee say monument designation makes local communities impoverished and threatens livelihoods.
As the Women of Bears Ears, we say, “Whose livelihoods? Our lands have been exploited and destroyed. Our homes were burned. Our elders and our children were killed. We were removed from our home ground. The history of the Long Walk remains. Our ancestors footprints remain. What livelihood?”
We are not a past people.
We are resilient and resolved.
We are here.
We are here — and we are your future.
The rematriation of these ancestral lands such as Bears Ears is a safeguard against the ecological and climate crisis. We know where the water is. We know where to find the plants and animals that have allowed us to survive. We know how to place ourselves back into the land. Rematriation is the cycle of that regeneration.
Our thoughts are woven into the fundamental laws of nature where Bears Ears is actively listening and engaging. Restoring Bears Ears National Monument would restore balance, harmony and beauty among all life. Bears Ears is not something to govern in a linear way of thinking, but a relative to be protected and taken care of in a circular way of thinking, just as our mothers taught us.
We want to tell our true narratives of the lands we are made up of to ensure our voices are included in public policy. We stand in solidarity with Secretary Haaland to empower and uplift Indigenous women, because we have been overrun and misrepresented by politicians who have failed repeatedly to protect sacred lands.Suddenly, though, doors were being slammed shut and gates locked tight. I decided to return through Canada. I applied for and got my visa waiver online within minutes. I flew to London but was not allowed on the connecting flight to Toronto. It turns out Canada has an extensive travel ban too; Canadians are just too polite to shout about it. Between the jigs and the reels, as we say in Brooklyn, I had to come through Mexico. Not just transit through — I had to stay there for 14 days, which I did last month. This itinerary was not my choice and certainly not logical, but that’s what the travel ban did; it forced me to take two extra long-haul flights, as well as holding me squarely in the beautiful and resilient Mexico City, which at that time was a hot spot experiencing record-high levels of infection.
I was there during the June 23 earthquake. It was the first one I had experienced, and the shock waves made my building sway. In the end, I made it back to New York, flying over the land border that is now all but closed to those seeking asylum. I quarantined and I’m grateful to be home.
I remain rocked by how something as physically flimsy as a passport and as artlessly made as a border serve to divide human beings up into two camps, the powerful and the powerless. Of course, this is not new information to billions of people in the world. My inconvenient route home was hardly a taste of the reality lived by most people today. It’s just that now this bad luck is finally going around. Americans are now barred from visiting most of the rest of the planet. Perhaps now that American passports have stopped working and this nation-state is no longer on top, more of us will understand the injustice of the entire system.
What to do with this understanding, I’m not quite sure. One option is to hew ever closer to the bald and horrifying reality that we — any and all of us — are not entitled to any rights because we are human beings, rather because we happen to be born in such and such a country, and to act accordingly. To shut down, to prioritize ourselves and vigorously declare to hell with everybody else. Fine. Although we’ve been trying that and it isn’t actually working. In fact, it seems pretty self-destructive.
Borders and bans and even nation-states, along with all of the laws and violence that hold them together and apart, are relatively new compared with how long humans have been around. Now that more of us are seeing and living the constricting and dangerous reality of those artificial distinctions, surely we need to change them. The person, the human being, the vulnerable creature no different from any other, that is what is sacred. Not their paperwork. Americans are learning that now. And what easier way than being gently turned away from an Irish pub?
Maeve Higgins (@maevehiggins) is the author of “Maeve in America: Essays by a Girl From Somewhere Else” and a contributing Opinion writer.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A long time ago, I read of a torture technique that a journalist heard was used by Hamas on residents of Gaza suspected of being informants: The person is shown a wall onto which a staircase is drawn, and at the top is a drawing of a bicycle. The person is told to go up and get the bicycle. But it’s only a drawing, he says. He is told that if he doesn’t bring the bicycle down the stairs, he will be beaten. And when, again, he appeals to his torturer’s reason, to the reality in which both the staircase and the bicycle are drawings, he is hit. At this moment he understands that he has been left alone in a reality he believed was shared. He has been abandoned there, while the others have departed to a new reality in which a person can be tortured for being unable to do what is asked because it is physically impossible. In that same article, there was, as I recall, a photograph of the concrete blocks of the Israel/Palestine wall, on which someone had scrawled “CTL+ALT+DLT.”
Here in Brooklyn, my children no longer attend school and instead are on the sofa rapidly tapping the buttons of their keyboards to bash down a wall in Minecraft. In that medieval landscape of the future, they have built houses for themselves, they own dogs, they have somehow exchanged emeralds mined from a cave for melon seeds and pigs. With whom did you trade the emeralds for the pigs? I ask. With the villagers, they say, distractedly, not lifting their eyes from their screens.
Earlier this week, the older one, mining the internet, dug up an old video of President Trump’s appearance on a late-night show, and since then they have been watching it over and over, unable to control their laughter. In it, the president, who has yet to win the election and become the president, says that in the wall he intends to build on the border there will be “a beautiful, big, fat door,” through which people will enter the country. In the years since the airing of this late-night appearance, very many people have been told they must enter through this door, even though it doesn’t exist. The part about the beautiful door is funny, but the really funny part, as far as my children are concerned, is when the late-night host gives the future president a chance to apologize to anyone he wants, and the president can’t think of anyone. No one at all? Nope, the president says.
It is winter now, then spring, then summer, and already fall. Those of us with homes have been told to take refuge there, to stay within the walls. As such, no one can reach anyone except via satellite, and our only shared reality is the news, and the numbers of infections and fatalities. A friend, nearing the end of a two-week quarantine with her family in a small apartment in Jerusalem, tells me that once they made it through the first week, her dark mood began to lift. “La’ga’at ba’kir” was the expression my friend used, which means “to touch the wall”: The hardest part of the challenge was behind now, the finish in sight. Later, after we end our call, it occurs to me that at 46 I have almost certainly touched the wall in my life, but have none of the eagerness to be finished that the expression suggests.What’s at stake is the well-being of our species. For decades, humans enjoyed remarkable progress against extreme poverty, illiteracy, disease, blindness and hunger. But because of the coronavirus, we’ve tumbled backward. When the virus ravages a low-income country, young girls are pulled out of school and are married off. Vitamin A supplementation may be skipped, causing micronutrient deficiencies that lead to more blindness and death. Children aren’t dewormed, so their food nourishes parasites rather than their bodies and brains, leaving them anemic and malnourished. Women can’t get contraception or maternal care, so some die in childbirth or suffer childbirth injuries like fistulas.
All this threatens to magnify global inequality.
“A small group of countries that make and buy the majority of the world’s vaccines control the fate of the rest of the world,” noted Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director general of the World Health Organization. “The ongoing vaccine crisis is a scandalous inequity that is perpetuating the pandemic. More than 75 percent of all vaccines have been administered in just 10 countries.”
Fewer than 1 percent of the population in countries like Zambia, Sudan and Tajikistan have received even a single vaccination.
It’s of course understandable that national leaders want to prioritize their own citizens. But as stockpiles grow, we need to pivot to fight the coronavirus worldwide — not only because it’s the right thing to do, but also because it’s in our national interest.
The virus that we ignore in Zambia may incubate a virus that strikes us. We also have a chance to use this vaccine initiative to rebuild good will and soft power that frayed during the Trump presidency, and some of that may help us make progress at the next U.N. climate change conference in November.I got luckier than that. Growing up, I had three uncle-and-aunt sets, two of whom lived reasonably nearby: my father’s brothers and their wives. I experienced them as thrilling vacations from my parents, whose love was necessarily mingled with judgment.
My Uncle Jim didn’t judge. He took me to “Cats” (and, over time, I came to forgive him for that). My Uncle Mario didn’t judge. He took me out on his boat. My Aunt Vicki and my Aunt Carolyn didn’t caution me about eating too much. They chided me for eating too little. When I visited them, seconds were a given, “calorie” was a four-letter word, and the doggie bag contained enough leftovers for a week.
Needless to say, I loved visiting them. I also learned, for those occasions, to wear loose pants.
And because my uncles and aunts weren’t compelled by any firmly established norms to spend X amount of time with me or pay Y degree of interest, their attention made me feel special in a singular way. It still does.
I’m certain that I haven’t succeeded to the same degree with my nieces and nephews. But I’ve given it my best flawed shot, and when all goes well, there’s a kind of ease between uncles or aunts and their nieces and nephews that’s noticeably different from the relationship between a child and a parent or grandparent. Becoming friends with my mother and father lagged years behind becoming friends with my uncles and aunts. I admitted things to my uncles and aunts that I would never, at that time, have admitted to my parents, and a few of my own nieces and nephews have shared with me sides of themselves — sloppy sides, self-doubting sides — that I believe they were more reluctant to let their parents see.
My uncle experience is no doubt colored by the fact that I have no children of my own. That’s not uncommon for gay men and women of my generation: When I graduated from college, into adulthood, in the mid-1980s, gay parenting was much rarer and less accepted, so many of us never factored progeny into our plans. We’re some of the world’s most devoted uncles and aunts, and while I’m not aware of any research into this, I’d bet that diminished bigotry toward gay and lesbian people among Americans in their 20s and 30s owes a bit to how many of those Americans had us in their lives.
Lately, there have been articles and fresh hand-wringing about declining fertility rates in many countries — about fewer people becoming parents and parents having fewer kids. We could be on the cusp of a generation of Super Uncles and Aunts.
But my sister, Adelle, manages to be both a devoted mother and an indulgent aunt. I’m a fascinated student of her interactions with her nieces and nephews, of the precise measures of authority figure (just a dash), role model (a teaspoon), confidante (two heaping tablespoons) and cruise director (a full cup) that go into the recipe. She’s gentle with her counsel, generous with her tequila. I take the same approach, but I swap out the tequila for white wine.[MUSIC PLAYING]
kara swisher
So it’s the last episode of 2020. You want to know how this year made me feel? Powerless. Powerless when my Fox News-watching, quarantine-hating mom showed up for the holidays, possibly bringing a lump of COVID as a stocking stuffer. Powerless to stop Donald Trump from Tweeting inane coup conspiracies. Powerless that I may never see the next Bond movie or Top Gun 2 on the big screen. So where am I supposed to turn in moments like these if not to Tom Cruise? For some people, religion helps. Not so for me. Others turn to therapy, and let me say, I’m an Olympic blocker of feelings. And then there’s astrology. Astrology is a more than $2- billion industry in the U.S., which makes it smaller than greeting cards but larger than podcasting. I was somewhat skeptical, but thought, what the hell, why not try a birth chart reading? So I turned to one of today’s most prominent astrologers, Chani Nicholas. She has a best selling book, a Netflix deal, and a new app named after her. Before I talked to her, I decided to sneak a peek at my horoscope online. It said, “Today brings good energy for clarifying feelings and coming to agreement.” Nope. Not accurate. Not at all.
chani nicholas
Well, I don’t know what exactly it is you’re looking at, but there’s a way in which astrologers began to speak to the masses, and the ways in which astrologers realized we could speak to people en masse was to boil everything down to somebody’s sun sign, which means the sign that the sun was in when you were born.
kara swisher
Mine’s Sagittarius. That’s all they needed to know was that I’m Sagittarius.
chani nicholas
Right, right. And so it was like an opener. It was like a gateway drug. It was only supposed to be a little tidbit, not like your whole being or what’s going on with you completely. It’s one tiny aspect of your entire astrological chart.
kara swisher
So you needed all my details ahead of time, which was the exact time, date, and location of my birth. Why do you need all that information?
chani nicholas
I pull up a map of the sky the moment that you were born. And it has every single planet and how the sky looked and which — which planets were in the sky, which planets weren’t in the sky, their relationships to each other. And so it’s about how bright they were, if they were hidden, if they were available, what part of the cycle that they were in in their own rotations around the Sun. Like it’s a very specific type of art. So like each sign has a planet that rules it. And if a certain sign —
kara swisher
Sun or—
chani nicholas
Sun, Mercury, Moon, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn. And so if you have a certain planet that’s rising up over the horizon, there’s a planet that’s in charge of that sign. And wherever that planet is saying, look, if the person doesn’t go to this type of arena in their life, they’re probably not going to feel like they’ve lived out their purpose, and that becomes one of the most important arenas for them to understand, live out, and accept, and do their thing in. And there’s different astrologies. Like in India, they’ve had a tradition that has gone unbroken for thousands of years. What happened in the West is that it got broken off from its traditional roots to a certain degree and we’re only now in a kind of Renaissance period where we’re remembering and relearning the ancient texts and the ancient astrology that’s actually much closer to what they practice in India than what modern astrology became in the West.
kara swisher
Why did it break off?
chani nicholas
So astrology had to go underground for a lot of different reasons, and a lot of it has to do with religion. A lot of it had to do with Christianity. A lot of the traditions kind of stopped. And then what happened is psychology became really popular. Jung, Freud — and Jung actually was interested in astrology at some point. He didn’t believe in it and then he was like, oh, there’s actually something to this. And so Jungian theories and ways of knowing influenced the astrology in the West. And so we’re kind of repairing all of that and remembering and getting reintroduced to these older ways of doing it.
kara swisher
So let’s talk about astrology as a business. Astrologer isn’t usually a major in college or career path. So when did you first decide to do this?
chani nicholas
Yeah, it’s kind of cool to be an astrologer now. It wasn’t like that when I was coming up. It wasn’t a career that I wanted. It wasn’t something that I thought was a career. And so I always did astrology throughout my 20s and 30s, but it wasn’t something that I thought I should go into full-time because I wanted to be something that was more professional.
kara swisher
And so when did you decide that it should be a profession?
chani nicholas
I think after dropping out of like my third grad school program and spending a lot of money and realizing that I could just put it all into my business. So I had been doing readings for years and I had been writing horoscopes and I had been doing things, but I didn’t really sink all of myself into it.
kara swisher
Because why? Were you nervous that people would — that it wasn’t a profession?
chani nicholas
Well, I grew up in a town in British Columbia that was so alternative and — it was like San Francisco times a gazillion.
kara swisher
Oh, that’s a lot, then.
chani nicholas
Yeah.
kara swisher
Ah, naked people wandering the streets. Sure, why not?
chani nicholas
That was my childhood.
kara swisher
Yeah, yeah.
chani nicholas
And so I was like, I get the alternative thing, like it’s not that cool to me. I actually want to be a professional person in the world. And so it just took me a long time to accept it as the thing that I was —
kara swisher
You’re going to be. Do you have to train to be an astrologer? Is there a certificate?
chani nicholas
You should.
kara swisher
OK. Explain how people do that.
chani nicholas
Well, now you can take courses online with incredible astrologers that have knowledge that we didn’t even have 30 years ago. So you find a teacher and then you study with them.
kara swisher
Did you train? Did you yourself —
chani nicholas
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I’ve trained with a lot of different people. I spent like five years training under the astrologer, Demetra George. I’m also always studying.
kara swisher
What kind of reactions do people have when you tell them you’re an astrologer?
chani nicholas
It depends on what’s circles I’m in. I mean, I definitely have people that give me very strange looks and think that I’m like some sort of charlatan or something. There is that old fear stuff that comes up with people.
kara swisher
But what do you say, then, if a person who’s not just a skeptic, but say you’re a scam? What do you —
chani nicholas
Yeah, they don’t usually say it to your face.
kara swisher
Yeah, yeah. But what do you say to the skeptics?
chani nicholas
I don’t care. Like, you don’t have to like astrology, you don’t have to believe in it. Like what do I care? Just find something that works for you and heal. Like we’re all just so broken and fractured. We just all need healing, so I just want everyone to go find the thing that works for them and use it.
kara swisher
Right. Right.
chani nicholas
You know what I mean? Like don’t harm yourself or other people, but please find things that give you joy and give your life meaning.
kara swisher
But you understand why people feel like that they could know stuff about you and then tell you what you’re like from — since there’s so much information about people —
chani nicholas
It’s the weirdest thing in the world.
kara swisher
Yeah.
chani nicholas
Like, why would this work? How could this be possible? But you’re marked in a certain way, I think. And of course, there’s mystery around it. And if there’s mystery around something, then it can be really nebulous and like ooh, what does it mean? But actually, astrology is like, look, if you have this planet around this thing, it’s going to be this, it’s going to be some form of this.
kara swisher
Right. So, you’re making it observational.
chani nicholas
Yeah. It’s not me saying, oh, I think I feel this thing from you. Like it’d be better if I didn’t know who you were.
kara swisher
Right, right. But because a lot of stuff you can find out from my Twitter feed.
chani nicholas
Exactly, of course.
kara swisher
Like very educated guesses about my personality.
chani nicholas
Of course. And so this is just like, at this point, affirming, because if you open my book, it would say the same thing. So it’s not my personal opinion of you, it’s what is happening here.
kara swisher
OK, but you have broken into mainstream. Most people do believe you and have amassed a huge following a way few other astrologers have. You have a deal with Netflix, you write for Oprah magazine, you read celebrity birth charts. Take me through what got you there.
chani nicholas
Well, I think I had that moment of there weren’t a lot of astrologers online writing in a way that included the dynamics of the moment, which is to say, I wrote from a lens of saying there are injustices in the world, and I wrote from a place of things that I cared about, and I care about people and I care about the fact that the systems we live within are unjust and cruel and harmful, and that we all have to operate within this and how does that impact us.
kara swisher
So not just when are you going to find love, that kind of thing —
chani nicholas
Yeah. Yeah. I wasn’t that. I wasn’t that astrology column. And because of that, I think it picked up. And honestly, the queer community, I think, was my, like, base and really helped to circulate the work.
kara swisher
So how much do you charge for readings?
chani nicholas
At this point in my career, I actually don’t charge for readings.
kara swisher
Oh.
chani nicholas
I ask people to donate to whatever cause is going on, but my wife runs an organization called FreeFrom that works with survivors of intimate partner violence at the intersection of economic justice and gender-based violence. And so I usually ask people to make a donation there.
kara swisher
What do astrologers usually charge for readings?
chani nicholas
I think new like young astrologers I think probably charge about $100 up to like $450, $500, $600, I don’t know. But they’re not the bulk of my work anymore. So I teach stuff online, and now we’re transitioning everything onto the app.
kara swisher
Because?
chani nicholas
Because it’s — because it’s the way I wanted to do my business. Because it’s like — it’s the most fun for me. Because doing readings solely and just doing that, there’s not as much engagement. So there’s — the readings are like deep, interpersonal, one-on-one work that you do with folks. And then the stuff I do online, like I’ve been teaching astrology online for years and I do monthly courses, and now we’re going to — we’ve put it all — we put it all into the app. And it’s me and a team of astrologers that wrote it. And so it is an exploration through your chart. You can click on any planet, you can learn about anything in your chart. It also tells you what transits you’re under. So if you went on it, it would be like, you have entered your Saturn return, what does that necessarily mean for you? And we’ve been teaching astrology workshops on Dropbox for five years. It’s so archaic, our business model. And so we’re like, let’s build a place for it so it can be in people’s phones and they can have access to it. So I want people to have the tools of astrology without needing to go through me, necessarily. And it’s like you can test it to see if there’s actually any validity here.
kara swisher
How do you look at the competitive landscape? Like Co-Star and The Pattern?
chani nicholas
Well, I don’t, really, because I am coming into the app game having six years of an astrology business where I’ve been talking to people through recordings online for this entire time. And so I’ve built a relationship with my client base for years. So I am in my own league, if you will, because I’m coming at it from already having an established astrology business presence. We don’t have any VC funding. This is all self-funded. It’s all very self-directed and it’s very much all the work I’ve always been doing, but now it’s just on an app.
kara swisher
Has there, being out there, the other apps made your job harder? Like a Co-Star or a Pattern? No?
chani nicholas
No, it makes it easier, actually.
kara swisher
Why?
chani nicholas
Because it makes it more popular.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
chani nicholas
And so then people are looking for more info.
kara swisher
Right.
chani nicholas
And each astrologer, the people that work really hard at this and this is their life and this is their profession, we all put so much work into our business. And so the people that spend their life doing this I think they get to be distinguished really easily.
kara swisher
Right. Versus VC. You’re not taking VC funding.
chani nicholas
Yeah. Nobody’s directing this but us.
kara swisher
Yeah. If you read the VC charts, you wouldn’t like what you saw. Anyway, I can tell you that even without reading them —
chani nicholas
No comment.
kara swisher
No comment, yeah, right, got those guys. But the traditional person who’s an astrologer, who wants to do this for like for a living and thinks this is thing, is it a good living?
chani nicholas
I mean, I don’t know people get into astrology to make money. I mean, you don’t get into astrology to make money.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm. But there has been a commodification of astrology.
chani nicholas
There’s a commodification of it.
kara swisher
What do —
chani nicholas
What do I think of it?
kara swisher
Yeah.
chani nicholas
It’s what happens in capitalism.
kara swisher
Yeah.
chani nicholas
Capitalism commodifies whatever it can. It doesn’t care about the thing, it just wants to make money off of it. So is there always going to be inside capitalism people that don’t care about the craft and just want to make a buck? Yeah. So I think you should really know where you’re getting your astrology from, where you’re getting your products from, where you’re getting your stuff from.
kara swisher
Well, how can someone spot a bad horoscope when you see one online?
chani nicholas
Again, it’s all like personal experience. I don’t know what’s bad. Like it’s not up to me to say that, necessarily, but I think it’s really good to have relationships with the astrologers that you like. A relationship with their work, I mean, which is to say like over a long period of time, is it helpful? Or does it freak you out or does it just, like, say the things that you want to hear and not really actually get to anything that’s —
kara swisher
Truthful.
chani nicholas
Yeah. And can like challenge you in some way.
kara swisher
Yeah. So just saying, you’ll find a man, and do this.
chani nicholas
[LAUGHS]
kara swisher
Certainly. Every year my mom went to an astrologist — she’s been married twice. My father died and she’s like, he says this year I’ll meet a man, I’m like, she never met a man. And I just — I’m like, who are you talking to and like why is that your question? But in any case —
chani nicholas
My wife — there was an astrologer that she went to.
kara swisher
She cheats on you from an astrology point of view? All right, OK.
chani nicholas
Well, this is before we met. And she was with a family member and they wanted to know when she was going to get married and who she was going to marry. And the astrologer looked at her and was like, you’re going to marry an American. And the astrologer did not say it was a man. They did say it was a woman. They looked at her and gave her this knowing look.
kara swisher
Oh, well that’s a better one. I had one psychic tell me my husband will be great. So I was like, good, I can’t wait to meet him. He doesn’t exist. Anyway. It’s not distant from therapy. Do you view astrology as a form of therapy?
chani nicholas
I mean, it’s not therapy, but it can be therapeutic. I think therapy is something you commit to for a certain amount of time and you do it regularly with that person. That’s not what astrology is. Like astrology readings, you have — I think you should only have them once in a while. I don’t think you should get too many astrology readings, I don’t think you should worry about it too much. But a therapist is somebody that you go to, you know, regularly and unpack things. Do you unpack things in an astrological reading? Absolutely. Do people have kind of better results sometimes with astrology readings than they have with years of therapy? Yeah, totally. But it’s all about where the person’s at and what’s going on. So they are different approaches, but astrology can be deeply therapeutic and reflective. And if you need that kind of reflective moment, then astrology can be really healing.
kara swisher
Because it can be used — as very comforting or processing their lives or give people permission to make changes, because it’s like, ah, the astrology said it versus listening in a therapy session. Do you feel a responsibility in that when you are doing these readings?
chani nicholas
Yeah, I feel a big responsibility when I do any of it, but I always want to center the person’s free will and the person’s agency. And so like giving readings in 2020 was really challenging because the astrology was so awful. It was like, I don’t know if this is going to happen this year because it’s really bad. It doesn’t look like much is going to go. And so you want to couch that and like — but you know, it’s up to you and you can see how and what you want to do with it, but you want to lay out the landscape for somebody. But you don’t ever want to say, this is what you should do within the landscape, that’s up to you. I just want to kind of paint the picture.
kara swisher
Right. You don’t want to say, don’t get married or don’t do this business or —
chani nicholas
No. I mean, who am I to say that? You know if you should get married, and it’s your lesson and it’s all going to fall on your shoulders anyways. I don’t have to deal with the result.
kara swisher
Yeah. So you don’t think that people would replace therapy with astrology.
chani nicholas
I don’t think you should. They’re different things and they’re both, I think, needed and necessary.
kara swisher
So Millennials and Gen Zs really are into astrology — my kids don’t have an issue with it, which is interesting, and I would say people — between me and them have more questions about it. But why are Millennials and Gen Zers into astrology?
chani nicholas
Well, I think that they have access to all of this knowledge at their fingertips in ways that I didn’t — we didn’t. And people are deeply interested in themselves. So it’s this way to feed like self-knowledge all the time or self-obsession, however you want to look at it. And also, if you grew up on the internet, you’re going to grow up taking in a lot of astrological content because it’s just everywhere.
kara swisher
Right, right.
chani nicholas
So it’s like, why wouldn’t they — it’s like, yeah, it’s astrology, it’s everywhere, it’s all everybody talks about. It’s in pop songs and it’s on clothes, it’s all over the place. So it’s just also part of culture now.
kara swisher
Why do you think it endures?
chani nicholas
Because I really believe that we are in deep need for a feeling of connection with the natural world. Like everything goes back to our relationship with this planet, and also with the sky, and with the living things around us. Human beings were dependent on the cycles of the sun to live. We could follow the sky, we could understand what was rising when and what that meant for food cycles. It’s a clock, and that’s how we knew how we were, where we were, what time it was, when to do rituals, when to have festivals. And that’s —
kara swisher
— It’s a clock, I like that.
chani nicholas
Yeah. It’s embedded in us. So when we talk about it there, I think that there’s some part of us that is like, oh, I remember that. That makes sense to me, because at the winter solstice, it was a really important moment. It was when the Sun started returning back to us, and the days would start to get longer and food would start to come back eventually. Like it’s just on a very practical level, we need to be in relationship with the sky and the Earth and all the things, and I think that astrology reminds us of that.
kara swisher
One of the critiques often applied to organized religion, though, is people are blinding of reality or that people might follow it too closely without thinking for themselves.
chani nicholas
Yeah, but if we’re prone to do that, aren’t we going to do that with whatever? Some people do with Fox News, some people do it with their rabbi, some people will do it with astrology, some people will do it with yoga. I mean, there’s so many ways that we have to like check ourselves and make sure that we’re thinking for ourselves and doing what is, you know, right for us and not buying into a system just because we want someone to tell us what to do.
kara swisher
Right.
chani nicholas
We’re afraid, and that’s a fear we have to just deal with on a human level no matter what system we’re talking about.
kara swisher
Well, things are confusing.
chani nicholas
Yeah.
kara swisher
When things are confusing, that’s where people run to —
chani nicholas
Yeah.
kara swisher
— answers. Practicing astrology, what has it taught you about humans?
chani nicholas
That we all need, at some point or another, to have someone say, yeah, that’s how you’re made and that’s perfect. Now go do your thing. Most of us need that in some way, shape, or form. Permission. And acknowledgment. Like how great is it to be acknowledged for the gifts that you have and the tools that you have and what you can put to use? And I think I have found that a lot of people need to be — that it’s very beneficial for folks when you give them their power back and to remind folks not to give any one thing too much power over them in their lives and their choices.
kara swisher
We’ll be back in a minute. If you like this interview and want to hear others, hit Subscribe. You’ll be able to catch up on Sway episodes you may have missed, like my conversation with Brene Brown. And you’ll get new ones delivered directly to you. After the break, Chani Nicholas reads my birth chart. All right, let’s do it. What’s in my chart? Let’s start with me, because me, me, me. [LAUGHTER]
chani nicholas
Well then we’ll start with your Leo rising.
kara swisher
Oh. Well, there you go.
chani nicholas
So the rising sign is the most personal part of the chart. It’s the part of the chart that’s rising up over the horizon. The moment we take our first breath and are pronounced alive. So we want to look to the rising sign to see, OK, this is of life, this is the kind of like temperament that the person’s going to come in with, and also one of the motivations for living. And so when you have Leo rising, part of your deal is to shine. Part of your deal is to self-express. Part of your deal is also to be some kind of leader. That’s especially important for you because you also have Mars, the planet of action and courage and vitality. And also, Mars is the warrior. So you have this mark right off the bat of somebody who’s going to be able to go into battle if necessary, take initiative when necessary, and needs to lead. Like if I was sitting with your mom when you were born, I would have been like, this little one is going to need to like show you where they want to go. Like, this is a chart that’s like, sorry. I’m not actually sorry, I’m just going to lead with this. [LAUGHTER]
kara swisher
Sorry, not sorry is one of my main mottos, of course. Actually, I’m not sorry in the first place, but go ahead.
chani nicholas
Yeah. It’s like, what? I’m here.
kara swisher
Actually, not sorry.
chani nicholas
You know Mars is the — Mars is the sword. Mars cuts. It’s able to cut a new path also. It’s able to like move in a direction that maybe nobody else does. And it doesn’t have to — it’s not into like asking other people where to go. It’s like, I’m going this way. If you would like to come, I don’t care, but I’m going. And then you also have the north node next to your rising —
kara swisher
What’s a north node?
chani nicholas
The node is where the eclipses happen. And so it’s a point of desire, and it’s a marker of having an appetite. And usually when people have this by their ascendant, there’s a type of fame that’s usually associated with them because there is a need to do whatever it is that the ascendant is doing, which, again, is to shine and to be seen, to be some kind of person that is out in the public and getting attention for what it is that you do. And it’s also a point that can kind of — it’s hard because there’s a restlessness to it. And so your drive and your restlessness also might tire out the people around you, but it also is like, what can satisfy that? There’s nothing, actually, that can satisfy it. So with age and time, we get to know our own appetites, which ones are helpful and which ones are like, OK, look, I’m just never going to be satisfied, so I’m going to put it to rest before it kind of makes me exhausted.
kara swisher
Irritating aggression. Go ahead, yes. [LAUGHTER] That’s [INAUDIBLE] accurate, but I feel like you could get that from my Twitter. I feel like that’s pretty much clear. [LAUGHTER]
chani nicholas
So what was it like to have that kind of thing as a child?
kara swisher
Irritating for me. It was always being pushed at — trying to be pushed down and impossible to do so. It was constantly, you shouldn’t be so loud. I think it was gendered for sure. I think it was, she can’t be controlled rather than celebrating those aspects of being able to be in charge, being able to run things, being — it’s typical with women. It’s bossy. Like I remember hearing that a lot, and I was like, OK. Sure. Yeah. It was a problem.
chani nicholas
Yeah. And so it’s definitely something that shapes you and marks your life, and it’s something that you lead with forever, and it’s the mark that you take with you. Then we look to the planet that rules that sign, Leo. So it’s your sun in Sagittarius. And so Sagittarius is the seeker. It wants to learn, it wants to devour information, it’s ever on the quest and on the journey. And your sun is in the fifth house of creative self-expression and also of children. So I don’t know if you felt like having children was like —
kara swisher
Critical.
chani nicholas
Yeah. Very much so. Do you do any other work with children? Like does any of your —
kara swisher
No, no. I just wanted to have kids and a lot of them. I have three kids now. I might have one more. But I wanted always have kids since I was little. Constantly. I bought children’s clothes when I was a teenager.
chani nicholas
Oh my gosh —
kara swisher
— Not ‘cause I wanted to be a teen mom, necessarily, but I wanted to be a — I wanted to get pregnant, I wanted to have children. I was very critical, which people thought was unusual because I work a lot, too. And so I didn’t like when people said I couldn’t have kids and work, if that makes sense.
chani nicholas
Yeah, it does. And so it’s interesting, because you have all this leadership energy right up front and then you have the sun. That your life is steered towards the direction of creative self-expression. Like this is who I am and this is how I need to express myself. So do you feel like that creative drive has also been one of the main focuses of your life?
kara swisher
Oh yeah. Yes, expression, self-expression. For sure.
chani nicholas
Yeah. So that’s one of the major marks. And then you were born under a full moon. It’s a moon in Gemini. And what does Gemini do? It talks. It is literally the reporter. It is literally the one who is always exchanging information, giving and receiving data, and just constantly being in a conversation that is like driving you 1,000%. And so these are the main like anchors of your chart. This is where we start. And then we can go anywhere. So there’s timing, too. So you have just entered your second Saturn return as of yesterday.
kara swisher
Oh my God —
chani nicholas
I know. So the first Saturn return happened for you between 1991 and 1993. And so everybody has a Saturn return around the end of their 20s and into the beginning of their 30s. And it’s usually a time that marks our life in some fairly hefty kind of way, and it’s about growing up and becoming an adult and it’s usually really formative. For you, the Saturn return occurs in the seventh house of committed partnerships. So that’s marriages, that’s any kind of business partnership and any kind of platonic partnership. So that was the first Saturn return and that kind of established you in your career. And now you’re coming up to your second one.
kara swisher
OK, what does that mean?
chani nicholas
Well, the second one is really — it’s this marker of — Saturn marks time. So the second Saturn return is always about, look, I now have these pretty much like three decades under my belt of this thing. And so I have become an expert at the thing that I began around the age of 28 to 30. And now that I have all of that wisdom and all of that time, what am I going to do with it?
kara swisher
Is it typically a time when people change a lot?
chani nicholas
Yeah.
kara swisher
Or make changes?
chani nicholas
It’s the make changes because it’s like, look, this is — I have this much time on the earth. Like, I can’t — this is not a time to take for granted.
kara swisher
Well, I did get married and have another baby this year, so, I mean, I feel —
chani nicholas
Oh. OK.
kara swisher
— busy. I’ve been busy. And started a new podcast. That’s right.
chani nicholas
OK.
kara swisher
Chani.
chani nicholas
OK.
kara swisher
I don’t need your help. [LAUGHTER] I don’t need any Saturn whatever —
chani nicholas
Returns.
kara swisher
Returning. I know Saturn. Saturn’s late. It’s late to the party here. But what questions do most people ask you about?
chani nicholas
Everybody wants to know if they’re on the right path.
kara swisher
Uh huh.
chani nicholas
And a lot of people want to know about relationships.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
chani nicholas
And a lot of people want to know about career.
kara swisher
All right. Then well let’s ask that. Let’s get back to me and my chart. As I enter the new year, 2021, what do you see in my career? Am I on the right paths, Chani?
chani nicholas
[LAUGHS]
kara swisher
I’m teasing you.
chani nicholas
OK. So really interesting is the planet of upheaval and change and like revolution and doing things very, very differently. Entered into your 10th house of career a couple of years ago. So I’m wondering what changed in your career in 20 — I’m trying to pull up the date. At 2017?
kara swisher
Mm-hmm. Yes. That was a big year.
chani nicholas
What did you start?
kara swisher
My podcasting.
chani nicholas
Ah.
kara swisher
I think that was about —
chani nicholas
Great.
kara swisher
— somewhere in there. So it was when it really started to take off.
chani nicholas
So it’s been changing since then and it’ll keep changing.
kara swisher
It’ll change, and I’ll finally get to my ultimate career as a basketball star. That’s my goal.
chani nicholas
OK. That’s your Mars in the first house talking —
kara swisher
[INAUDIBLE], The fact that I’m five-foot-nothing is — I don’t care. It’s going to happen for me. All right, so love life.
chani nicholas
OK. Love life. Well, you’re good, right?
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
chani nicholas
Yeah. So Saturn just — so Saturn entered this part of your chart of marriage back in March of 2020.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
chani nicholas
It was March, April — March, April, May, June, into the first bit of July. And was that a moment of —
kara swisher
I was supposed to get married, and then we had to delay it. So I think there’s a COVID part in here you can add in, the COVID months.
chani nicholas
Yeah, exactly.
kara swisher
Yes, I did get married.
chani nicholas
Yeah. So that was the initiation of your Saturn return, was about commitment and partnerships, who you want to commit with. What has staying power, what has longevity.
kara swisher
How’s it going to go?
chani nicholas
You’re good, you’re solid.
kara swisher
Good, phew, because I’m exhausted. Way too many relationships. Children, I got a lot of them.
chani nicholas
Well, this year it’s interesting. This year you’re moving into an 11th house year which is about community and about your friends and the groups and the people that you work with and alongside, and it really does open up the potential of your moon, which is to say this year is really this moment of seeing the potential of all of your contacts and all of the ways in which all the people that you’ve worked with over a long period of time are kind of coming together. But the ruler of your year is Mercury, and Mercury is in your fifth house of children. And so it feels like children become a big thing this year. You just had another baby, you said?
kara swisher
Yeah. In October, last October.
chani nicholas
Ah, congratulations.
kara swisher
But should I have another kid?
chani nicholas
Definitely.
kara swisher
Wow. I’m exhausted.
chani nicholas
I know. You don’t have to, but obviously you can do what you want. But this year does pull focus on that part of your chart and what it means for you. And there might be a way in which you like to overdo the children thing, too.
kara swisher
Yeah. I want another kid. I want seven kids. I want to be like one of those families and have seven — Eight Is Enough was a big show when I was a kid.
chani nicholas
Yeah.
kara swisher
So when do I get to relax? Chani? Or not? It’s just I’m going down —
chani nicholas
This lifetime is not so relaxed.
kara swisher
Oh, no. Really?
chani nicholas
I mean, do you feel like there’s going to be a point at which you just relax?
kara swisher
No. I don’t.
chani nicholas
Yeah. I don’t really see that for you.
kara swisher
Anyway, this has been really delightful.
chani nicholas
Thank you.
kara swisher
Thank you so much, I really appreciate it.
chani nicholas
Thank you.
kara swisher
All right. Thanks.
chani nicholas
Bye.
kara swisherThe day before Mr. Protasevich’s arrest, Arina Malinovskaya, a journalist at a Poland-based news channel that focuses on Belarus, Belsat, fled the country fearing for her safety. Soon after, she received a phone call from a relative who was being held by the authorities until she returned and surrendered. She refused, and the police are now threatening to arrest more of her loved ones. Mr. Lukashenko’s crackdown, under which at least 34,000 people have been arrested since August, is no longer confined to Belarus’s borders.
Nor is its significance. What’s happening is not just about the rights of journalists in one country; it’s also about the criminalization of a free press in parts of the world where it is the most vital — and about the obligation of the international community to stand up to leaders who intimidate and silence journalists. It would be calamitous if the pressure campaign on Mr. Lukashenko — targeted sanctions, boycotts and condemnation — were to fade away.
In Russia, reporters, activists and ordinary citizens are watching the news with a sinking feeling, wondering how many months it’ll take before our country catches up with Belarusian levels of repression. What’s happening there could easily soon happen to us.
Things seem well on their way. This year, in response to the protests set off by the return of Aleksei Navalny to Russia in January and in advance of parliamentary elections in September, the Kremlin has stepped up its repression of independent media and organizations.
On April 23, Meduza, an independent news outlet where I work as the investigations editor, was declared a “foreign agent” by the Russia’s Ministry of Justice. The result was an almost total collapse of our business model. The Russian law requires “foreign agent media” to preface each message on its website and social media with a legal disclaimer, which few of our advertisers — including major international corporations and even Russian state-owned companies — were prepared to see plastered all over their promotional materials. We had to severely cut back on our operations. Our long-term survival is questionable.By 1973, Linda Nochlin was a famed feminist art historian, but a portrait of her from that year at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, highlights another, equally important role she held: as a mother.
In a painting by the American artist Alice Neel, full of broad brush strokes and vibrant colors, Nochlin looms large as a matriarch, her wide eyes confronting the viewer head-on, as she protectively envelops her daughter, Daisy, who — like her mother — stares out expectantly from the canvas.
The portrait is among the first visitors to the M.F.A. see when they enter “Women Take the Floor,” an exhibition, through May 3, 2021, that features 200 mixed-media works by more than 100 women over the past century. (The museum announced on Thursday that it was closing over concerns about the coronavirus.) It’s a fitting introduction to a show that interrogates the historic exclusion and devaluation of women in the art world — an appeal Nochlin put forth in her now-classic, 1971 essay that the exhibition cites: “Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?”
As Nonie Gadsden, the exhibition’s chief curator and the museum’s senior curator of decorative arts and sculpture, put it: “If we’re not showing them in our museum galleries, if we’re not teaching them in our classrooms, how are these names going to get to the point of being a Jackson Pollock that people want to come see?”Unlike other religious leaders, members of the Catholic clergy, as an all-male, celibate group, do not have wives or daughters to give them a sense of women’s experience. Yet their pervasive theology shapes policies that cause women untold suffering. It’s the basis for the hierarchy’s demand that a woman be forced to carry a pregnancy to term, even one that resulted from rape or one that threatens her life. It’s also the specter that makes women forgo hysterectomies because, we are told, it’s better to endure suffering than lose the possibility of giving birth. Women, in other words, are reduced to vessels, one in which the potential, theoretical life that might be is privileged over the living, breathing person at risk.
But Catholics should ask themselves whether the church’s anti-abortion fight is less about babies and more about controlling women’s fertility and, with that, women’s freedom. Bishops have notably little to say about methods to control male sexuality. They never turn vasectomies into a culture war issue. Though Catholic health care plans take pains to excise contraceptives from their coverage, treatments for male impotence are not prohibited, even though there is no certainty that men will use those drugs with their wives in order to procreate — the only kind of sex that the church condones.
Understanding the motivations behind these doctrines is important, even for the unchurched, because giving pregnant people the legal right to have control and agency over their bodies translates to other aspects of their lives, namely the capacity to claim political, economic and social autonomy.
Virulent anti-abortion rhetoric from on high has kept the majority of pro-choice Catholics silent — including the president of the United States. Now that the Supreme Court, with its six Catholic justices (five of whom espouse extremely conservative religious views), has decided to take up a case that is a direct challenge to Roe v. Wade, there has never been a more urgent moment to speak out boldly as people of faith who support the right to access abortion.
We must reject the silencing and stigma that church leaders use to seal off any questioning, dialogue or education around this issue. Catholics, in particular, must push through our conditioned discomfort. Members of a privileged, patriarchal caste of religious leaders are the only ones who benefit when we are afraid to say the word “abortion” in our affirmation of reproductive rights.
When my pathology report came back after my surgery, I discovered that my “perfectly healthy” uterus was in fact riddled with endometriosis and cysts. The initial tests the doctor conducted were unable to detect what I knew instinctively: A hysterectomy was a necessary and potentially lifesaving operation. My prayers were answered through medical intervention.
I’m grateful the pangs of religious guilt did not keep me from a procedure that has transformed my health and my quality of life. But I realized that if someone like me, who has made a career out of boldly proclaiming my dissent from church doctrines on sexuality and reproduction, can still be susceptible to its manipulations, who among us isn’t?
Jamie L. Manson is the president of Catholics for Choice and has a master’s in divinity.In his Inaugural Address, Biden rattled off a dire inventory of crises we face as a nation: The assault on truth. The assault on democracy. Climate change, the coronavirus, our badly damaged international alliances. Runaway income inequality. Poison wells of racism that seem to never run dry.
Any one of these problems would be daunting, he noted. Together, the sheer scale overwhelms. If you’re an average citizen with average means and average time at your disposal, you could be forgiven for hearing that list and taking to your bed.
What’s so emboldening and life-affirming about these three series, I think, is that they offer a vision of making a difference that’s actually achievable in scale. Small kindnesses. Mending rifts. Rebuilding communities, even if that community is just a bunch of demoralized soccer hooligans.
A quick précis, if you’re unacquainted with the joys of these shows:
Ted Lasso is a rube savant from Kansas who’s been recruited to take over an English soccer team, though the only kind of football he knows is the American variety. What he doesn’t know is that he’s been cynically set up to fail — the team owner badly wants revenge on her philandering ex-husband, and what better way than to slowly euthanize his precious team? But but but: Lasso is so largehearted that even the most brittle creatures soften in his presence, and his solution to coaching a sport whose rules elude him is simple: Unknot the psychological difficulties of individual players, one at a time, until they all play well with one another.
I am now rereading this and thinking I’ve made the show sound almost criminally cheesy. It isn’t. It is wickedly funny (I mean, Jason Sudeikis) and committed to a certain kind of outlandishness; the humor just doesn’t come from a place of anger.Over the next few days, however, I kept coming back to it. We needed something aspirational to generate excitement and motivate those on the fence to get vaccinated now.
I thought about how much money the country had already spent fighting the virus, including millions of dollars in health care costs, the lost productivity and the lost lives. Frankly, the lottery idea would cost a fraction of that — about $5.6 million, according to our estimates.
I remembered a quote from Bill Veeck, the former Cleveland Indians, St. Louis Browns and Chicago White Sox owner: “To give one can of beer to a thousand people is not nearly as much fun as to give 1,000 cans of beer to one guy.”
I was convinced that the excitement of people talking for weeks about who would be next to win a million dollars would significantly increase vaccinations. Early on a Saturday morning, May 8, I sent a memo to my team with a proposed lottery structure. I asked them to meet that afternoon and discuss how to make it work. By that Monday, I had canceled my scheduled travel, and we spent hours working through the logistics. Two days later I was giving my address to the people of Ohio announcing the creation of Vax-a-Million.
We decided to stretch out the five drawings, figuring that each time a winner is revealed, it would lead to more enthusiasm and more vaccinations. Children ages 12 to 15 had just become eligible for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, so we added a full, four-year college scholarship. The first drawing winners were announced on Wednesday. More winners will be announced each Wednesday, and vaccination records will be verified for winners.
The results have exceeded my wildest expectations. Since the announcement, available data suggests that shots are up 49 percent among people ages 16 and over in Ohio and have increased 36 percent among minorities and 65 percent among Ohioans living in rural areas. Vaccinations among 16- and 17-year-olds have increased 94 percent. We’ve been contacted by a number of states inquiring about the lottery, and we have shared details of our experience so far.
The publicity the lottery has generated has spread the word more cost effectively than a P.S.A. campaign would at this point, generating over $23 million worth of free ad equivalency about vaccinations. According to one estimate, preventing just 40 severe Covid-19 cases requiring hospitalization would pay for the entire program.As for the chopsticks you eat with, the old-fashioned canisters stuffed with communal acid-green and neon-orange plastic chopsticks that used to grace the tables at On Lee are gone. They have been replaced by individually wrapped packages of the disposable Japanese-style kind.
Hotpot? Not. The Sichuan winter tradition that became a Hong Kong year-round rage in the 1990s lost its allure in late January, after 11 members of one family became infected with the new coronavirus from sharing a holiday meal over a bubbling communal pot.
The city’s most famous breakfast and lunch custom, dim sum, has taken a hit, too. Normally it’s a boisterous occasion, with extended families or office mates hunkered over steamer baskets that cover all the tabletop real estate. But in late July, the Hong Kong government restricted restaurant dining to a maximum of two people per table. (The rule has recently been relaxed to allow four people per table starting Sept. 11.)
Diners have had to adjust to unaccustomed dim sum intimacy: a pair of people, a few lonely baskets and quiet, face-to-face conversation.
Dinnertime has suffered especially. The typical Cantonese restaurant meal is a delicate balancing act of multiple courses, each showcasing a different ingredient, flavor, texture, cooking method and — in a culture in which food is also considered medicinal — health benefit. Ordering the right parade of dishes is an art, and they are sized for group-sharing so that diners (ideally six to eight people) can eat a bit of everything while maintaining dietary equilibrium. Downsizing restaurant meals to only two (or even four) people means adjusting not just service and table size, but also menus and recipes, as well as the cuisine’s very ethos.
Hong Kong, a crowded semitropical city built on global trade, has been a crucible for contagion pretty much since its urban beginnings.
The catastrophic bubonic plague that first hit in 1894 and then recurred redrew the city’s urban landscape — an entire disease-ravaged neighborhood was razed to the ground. It also sowed the seeds of what would become an influential and wide-reaching public health and hygiene bureaucracy.Most of these stories don’t make the news at all. Other times the news is saturated with them — the other day, Mr. Trump, Julian Assange, Mr. Weinstein, the Jeffrey Epstein-backer and Victoria’s Secret owner Leslie Wexner and Michael Bloomberg — he of the multiple nondisclosure agreements — were all on the front page of a leading newspaper, along with a German mass shooter who’d also murdered his mother. Nothing indicated that most of these figures and some of these stories were all about the same thing: gender violence and gendered silence.
President Trump bought Stormy Daniels’s silence just before the 2016 election; she received some money in return for becoming a person who would never have words, never tell her story (and then, as many women have done since 2017, she finally did.) The president has asked for a delay in E. Jean Carroll’s lawsuit against him for defamation — because he called her a liar when she said he raped her — so he can deal with another lawsuit from another woman he called a liar when she said he groped her.
There’s an illuminating overlap to be found in the fact that Alan Dershowitz was friends with and provided legal services for both Jeffrey Epstein and Mr. Trump — the former for sexual abuse, the latter in his impeachment trial. The historian Heather Cox Richardson wrote of that trial, “but for Trump and his enablers, this trial is not about the truth; it never has been. It is about dominance and power. Forcing someone to accept what they know to be untrue reinforces the dominance of the person telling the lies.”
To be powerless means that your facts and truths can be overwhelmed by the powerful, who prefer these facts or voices or stories not be heard. And what it means in the end is that truth and fact and evidence only prevail, whether it’s science or personal stories, in a democracy — not just a democracy in the electoral sense but a world in which power differentials don’t corrupt what stories get told. Where what facts prevail depends on the strength of those facts, not the status of the speaker.
Imagine if Mr. Weinstein had committed his first sexual assault in a world in which his victim had the audibility, credibility, value and resources he did. There would likely not have been a second, or six women testifying in a trial, or 90 women with stories no one made space for before something changed in 2017. More likely there would not have been a first in a world where he knew he could not overpower her facts and voice, even if he could overpower her physically. When I hear these stories, I think of my own youth as a person who was voiceless, not because I could not speak, but because they would not listen. I, like so many others, then and now.
For myself, I wanted Mr. Weinstein found guilty and imprisoned not as revenge — though he richly deserves it — but as a warning to men like him that the age of impunity is over, that there are people willing to listen to women, and sometimes what we say has consequences. The most important change will be found in what we cannot measure — all the crimes that don’t happen because would-be perpetrators fear the consequences, now that there are consequences. All the potential victims who know that if they speak up, someone might hear them and heed them. I want more than that, though: I want a society where the desire and entitlement to commit sexual violence wither away, not out of fear but out of respect for the rights and humanity of victims.
But even the idea that Mr. Weinstein’s conviction is a watershed is optimistic: from offices to agricultural fields to college campuses, sexual violence is still harming millions directly and making survival extra work that too many women must do daily. We have democratized storytelling and truth to the extent that we now sometimes hear about the consequences of inequality, but not enough to end those stories. We — well, some of us — have begun a process that matters more than anything. What just happened to Weinstein was, maybe, a step forward, but we have miles to go.
Rebecca Solnit is the author of the forthcoming book “Recollections of My Nonexistence,” a memoir about her youthful encounters with silence and violence.
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.And then there’s the plaque.
One night in April 2017, a small, round brass plaque commemorating the end of absolute monarchy in 1932 disappeared from the paving of the Royal Plaza. Another one appeared in its place that exhorted citizens to worship the monarchs. I found red wax drippings at the site, evidence that red candles — a modern substitute for the sacrificial blood of yore — had been used in a religious ritual.
Journalists trying to investigate what had happened were intimidated by police officers; talk of the switcharoo immediately was taboo.
The 1932 plaque itself had been a pointed response to another marker of power: Thailand’s first constitutional government had installed it as a counterpoint to the log of Javanese cassia wood that the first king in the Chakri dynasty had ordered put on display to announce the advent of a new era.
The sacred log was implanted in the royal grounds on April 21, 1782, at precisely 6:54 a.m. At that moment, the sun was in Aries and Mars in Taurus. The first alignment was an augur of powerful kings and a long-lasting dynasty, the second of a bold and influential army.
Some astrologers look upon the 1932 plaque as a threat to the order of things as they had been. They have told me that the celestial alignment at the moment it was installed favored popular sovereignty over the monarchy.
And when that plaque was replaced in 2017, some whispered that the move signaled another correction, a return to pre-constitutional, absolutist times. King Maha is the 10th monarch of the Chakri dynasty.
The protesters today know very well this language of power and how to borrow its symbolism.
Nine is an auspicious number in much of Southeast Asia, representing the nine planets and planetary deities in traditional Hindu-Buddhist cosmology. One day in late September — the ninth month — nine protest leaders knelt on the royal parade grounds outside the Grand Palace in Bangkok. While one, wearing the white robes of a court astrologer, chanted prayers, the others pressed yet another plaque into a block of fresh cement in the ground.To the Editor:
Re “The Wrong Way to Distribute Vaccines,” by Ezekiel J. Emanuel and Govind Persad (Opinion guest essay, May 25):
The suggestion that it is unethical to allocate vaccines equitably across all nations when some countries are faring worse against the ravages of Covid-19 than others misses one crucial fact: Vaccines are at their most effective when preventing surges of the virus, not combating them once they have taken hold.
When outbreaks occur, the critical tools available to governments are of the nonpharmaceutical variety, such as lockdowns, distancing and mask wearing. Vaccines are also a part of the solution, but with up to three months needed for a two-dose Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccination, followed by a two-week wait in order to achieve full protection, they are not an acute intervention even if there are enough to go around.
We don’t know where the next surge will hit or when the next variant will emerge, which is why Covax’s goal to protect the most vulnerable everywhere is, at this stage of the pandemic, the right thing to do. This not only means maximizing the chances of survival for the health workers, elderly and vulnerable whose lives are most at risk, but also minimizing the chances that new, more dangerous variants will come along.
The real issue with vaccines today is not how to divvy up a small slice of the pie for less wealthy nations but how to make their slice bigger, which is why governments and manufacturers of vaccines must do everything in their power to get as many doses as possible to Covax now.
Seth Berkley
Soumya Swaminathan
Richard Hatchett
Dr. Berkley is chief executive of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. Dr. Swaminathan is chief scientist of the World Health Organization. Dr. Hatchett is chief executive of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. Their organizations co-lead Covax.Our coach Nanette, a Dutchwoman in her 50s who once played on the pro tour, observes my struggles benevolently. “Don’t worry about power,” she says. “They supply the power. Just hit it in front of you.”
On day two, we are sent to a classroom for “mental” — pronounced men-TAL — where another coach explains that “in tennis, you have a tendency to focus on what you’ve done badly” and then lose confidence.
To combat this, she says, we must develop a routine to push away negative thoughts and reinforce positive ones. For example, each time we pick up balls between points, we can remind ourselves of one or two things that we know how to do well.
During these “reset” moments, she says we shouldn’t think about the score, or whether we’ll win the match. Just focus on doing our best in the present point. “If you have specific, realistic goals during the match, you should be happy afterward because you reached them. Even if you’re losing, you feel in control the whole time.”
Also, “in tennis, you have to accept that sometimes you will play badly,” she says, adding something obvious but reassuring, “You always have the chance to win the point.”
Back on the court, Nanette looks me in the eye and asks, “How was men-TAL?”
I decide to stop thinking about things I can’t control: that the others are better, and that they might resent having to hit with me. Instead, I tell myself to focus on being fully present for each shot, and just play the best tennis I can.
Suddenly, my returns are stronger, and I notice that even the Guadeloupean woman has weaknesses. (One is that when she loses a point to me, she’s infuriated.)To the Editor:
Re “‘The First Time the World Stopped and Noticed’” (front page, May 26):
As the nation observes the first anniversary of the murder of George Floyd, we recognize that he is a historic figure whose hideous death was not in vain.
The video of his killing that was repeatedly seen throughout the world was a damning indictment of the worst in policing and demonstrated that a country with great values and ideals has not yet reached its goal of equality. We also recognize how many similar deaths have taken place without accompanying video, killings that have been whitewashed by law enforcement officers who provided false accounts of a suspect’s cause of death.
Although justice was served in this one notorious case, minority drivers must still be wary of being stopped by the police, some of whom seem to believe that a person who steps out of line or resists arrest is subject to on-the-spot execution.
There is great symbolism in President Biden hosting the grieving family of Mr. Floyd at the White House — which we know would not have taken place in the prior administration.A year of pandemic living has changed us. It’s changed how we work, how we spend our time and what we value in life. It’s also changed our bodies, even for those of us who never got sick. A lot of us are coming out of this looking a little different than before. According to the American Psychological Association, more than 40 percent of us have gained weight that we didn’t want to, which makes sense. For many people, healthy routines have taken a back seat to more pressing concerns, like waiting out quarantine while lying on the couch. Cue the diet industry, which smells an opportunity. “Putting on the quarantine 15.” “How to prep your postpandemic body.” We’re being bombarded with ads telling us to fix the damage. “Don’t let 2020 get the best of you.” Media outlets that make us feel guilty for surviving. “No wonder people are packing on the pounds now.” “Spring is a great time to try to get this back on track.” “How to get that unwanted weight off.” Celebrities sharing their struggles. “Gwyneth admitted that she gained 14 pounds on wine, pasta, cheese and crackers.” And then hawking us meal kits. All so we can look like we spent the last year on a restorative spa vacation instead of cooped up at home during a global health crisis. The purpose of these messages is to make us worry about our bodies and how we look. In the process, it propagates the old myth that the most important thing about our health is our weight. And they’ve been doing this for decades. “Control your appetite.” “Lose excess weight naturally.” “Put it on to take weight off.” “Honey, what will these calories do to my waistline?” But we’re especially vulnerable to this idea right now when we’re just starting to socialize in person again. But what the American dieting industry doesn’t want you to know is the number on the scale probably doesn’t matter that much. Putting on some weight during the pandemic or any other time doesn’t mean you’re unhealthy. And it doesn’t mean you’re lazy, undisciplined or out of control. Weight fluctuations can be a natural response to lifestyle changes. Had any of those in the last year? The C.D.C. maintains that weight is not a reliable measure of health. And even when a person’s weight is a health problem, it’s been shown that in the long term, diets usually fail. And more importantly, that shaming people for their weight just doesn’t work. “Peloton, come on. Let’s get this workout started.” “SlimFast advanced smoothies.” But even in the face of a pandemic, the $70 billion weight loss industry soldiers on. And though their messages are cloaked in terms of health and wellness, its real effect is to make us feel worse than ever about ourselves. So we’ll buy products we don’t need. “Apple cider vinegar and gummies.” “Five best weight loss pills in 2020.” “Atkins 100 Eating Solution.” “Appetite suppressant lollipop.” It doesn’t have to be this way. Right now we have a choice. To keep taking orders from an industry that feeds off our sense of inadequacy or to gain some perspective from this pandemic year. Because living through a pandemic is enough of an achievement for our bodies. It’s natural if they’ve changed in the meantime. Bodies are resilient. They grow and shrink and stretch and age. And that doesn’t mean we have to measure up to some arbitrary ideal. In many ways, it’s better if we don’t.Ms. Ross chimed in: “Sex can be playful, more like, ‘Let’s have some fun.’”
Ms. Dodson’s epiphany arrived in the wake of a rocky, sexually tepid marriage in the early 1960s to an advertising executive, Frederick Stern. The couple had no children, nor did Ms. Dodson, who grew up with three siblings, plan on having them in the future. “I watched what my mother went through,” she said. “It’s the most thankless job on the planet.”
Free to experiment, she explored group sex with women and men, her objective, she said in a 1970 New York Times interview, to let go of jealousy and possessive feelings, “to understand I could love more than one person.”
She eventually became disenchanted. “Organized group sex is a little bowling-league kind of thing,” she said at the time. “It’s super‐compulsive — there’s a frantic quality to it. It’s weird.”
With a small settlement from her divorce, she financed the first of the sex workshops for women that were to become her livelihood and calling. At them, she urged often skittish participants to strip down, discover their bodies and embrace practices involving clitoral massage and the use of the Magic Wand, the slightly unwieldy but highly efficient vibrator she promotes and sells through her website, Dodson and Ross.
Her closely shorn white hair and sagelike demeanor invites comparisons with Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the cozily entertaining sex guru who mainstreamed in the 1980s. Ms. Dodson isn’t having it. “Dr. Ruth is your grandmother with a funny accent,” she likes to say. “You never listen to what she says.”
The comparison is apt — to a point, Ms. Sprinkle said. “Dr. Ruth is safe, whereas Betty is edgy, a progressive explorer of sexuality. She has the kinds of experiences that even her younger followers will never have.”Now there is a movement afoot to change that approach.
This year, the French government began requiring tech manufacturers to list an “indice de réparabilité,” a repairability score, on product pages for items like the iPhone and MacBook. If a device can be repaired, then its life can be extended, saving consumers money and the planet the burden of so many trashed gadgets. None of Apple’s iPhones or MacBooks earned above a 7, with 10 being the top score — making the company a “C student at best,” the website Grist noted. Other manufacturers like Microsoft and Samsung fared about the same. Equipped with this knowledge, consumers can make better choices about which products to buy. If unrepairable gadgets don’t sell, manufacturers will change course.
Some 59 million tons of old TVs, computer, screens, smartphones, washers and other electronics are discarded every year. This waste is dangerous. Batteries explode in recycling facilities. Toxic substances like mercury leach into soil and groundwater and disperse in the air. Manufacturing flat screens adds greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. We need tech companies like Apple — so progressive in so many ways — to lead the charge to solve this problem. If they won’t, governments must make them.
France is not alone in stepping into this mess. The movement is in the United States as well. More than a dozen states are considering so-called right-to-repair legislation, a rare bipartisan concern centered on the idea that manufacturers should not restrict access to information and parts that would allow independent shops to fix busted gadgets.
The New York State Assemblymember Patricia Fahy will hold a virtual town hall on the topic May 5. Anyone can attend. And the Federal Trade Commission is expected to release a long-delayed report soon on repair restrictions in consumer technology that could set the stage for a bigger push from the Biden administration.
Repairability is a surefire path toward longevity. Items become waste when they are no longer useful. Some of this is the simple march of progress. Other times, it is much harder to see the justification, such as when a Sonos speaker is cut off from software updates seemingly overnight.But as months turned to more months, an emotional sacrifice began to ring as loudly as the economical one. I realized that every day that darted by where I wasn’t performing music, I became a little bit weaker — in stamina, strength and spirit.
It was all a real Come to Randy moment.
Have you ever tried to learn a Randy Newman song? It’s impossible. His fingers are the only ones that make a piano behave that way. But I needed my own fingers to move a bit more like Randy’s did. My fingers were restless as hell, having written and recorded songs for a new album that lay comatose, waiting for the alarm to sound that it could feel OK to put music out into the world again. The trap is that I can’t feel comfortable writing new songs until the old ones are released. The trap is that I have no love for releasing music into the world if I don’t get to perform it. But as the old saying goes, when God closes a door on your fingers, he opens a window so you can still hear Randy Newman playing in the next room.
There has been one song that I’ve always wanted to learn how to play exactly the way Randy did. It topped my rainy day list of songs to tackle when I had the time, but perhaps I unconsciously drifted toward “Simon Smith and The Amazing Dancing Bear” because I needed to hear Randy’s voice shoehorning hope into my head as I struggled to make my fingers move like his.
And it was a struggle. The song is equal parts “this crazy thing only happens once” and “oh phew, this section repeats.” There was only one way to handle it. I would have to practice very slowly, learning from left to right entirely by ear, and work on it every damn day until I reached the finish line.And the violence isn’t just shootings. The incivility trickles down.
Many of the people we considered essential workers, the ones who kept our society functioning, are the same people on the receiving end of much of the violence. There has been a surge in unruly passengers on airplanes. A Southwest Airlines flight attendant had two teeth knocked out over the weekend when she was attacked by a passenger.
New York City bus drivers have seen a surge in violence, and the medical field, already suffering from a pre-Covid surge, has seen even more violence.
This is all happening at the same time that we see an extraordinary surge in gun background checks and purchases during the pandemic.
As The Washington Post reported in February:
“More than 2 million firearms were bought last month, according to The Washington Post’s analysis of federal gun background-check data. That is an 80 percent year-over-year spike and the third-highest one-month total on record.” Many of the gun buyers are first-time gun buyers.
Gun violence and gun sales are part of a self-perpetuating and mutually reinforcing phenomenon, and are only amplified by talk of gun control. As CNN put it in March: “The pattern of rising gun sales following mass shootings has held true regardless of which political party is in power: Fears of future restrictions prompt gun owners to stock up.”
Indeed, one of the ironies of the Biden administration is that although the president has urged more gun control and taken some executive actions on the issue, both The Washington Examiner and Forbes have reported that stimulus checks issued while he was in office helped fuel the gun buying surge.
As we begin to get back to normal, as some states plan to lift restrictions this summer, schools plan to reopen in the fall and in-office desk jobs begin to beckon stay-at-home workers, we must remember that there is a segment of society that will not so easily shake off the effects of this pandemic.When I got my first apartment in Manhattan in the hot summer of 1976, there was no pooper-scooper law, and the streets were covered in dog crap.
I signed the rental agreement, walked outside, and my car had been towed. I still thought, “This is the greatest place I’ve ever been in my life.”
Manhattan is an island off the coast of America. Are we part of the United States? Kind of. And this is one of the toughest times we’ve had in quite a while.
But one thing I know for sure: The last thing we need in the thick of so many challenges is some putz on LinkedIn wailing and whimpering, “Everyone’s gone! I want 2019 back!”At one level, it is a dispute over ground rules. Can a professor quote literature or historic documents that use taboo words? What rights should be granted to a person accused of sexual harassment? Are there issues or subjects that should not be explored in an academic setting?
On another level, though, it is a conflict over practical politics. Do specific policies governing speech and sexual behavior win or lose voter support? Are there policies that attract criticism from the opposition party that will stick? Are certain policies so controversial that they divert attention from the opposition’s liabilities?
In an article in March, “Why Attacking ‘Cancel Culture’ And ‘Woke’ People Is Becoming the G.O.P.’s New Political Strategy,” Perry Bacon Jr., formerly a senior writer at FiveThirtyEight and now a Washington Post columnist, described the ways that policies the Democratic left argued for provided political opportunities to the Republican Party:
First and perhaps most important, focusing on cancel culture and woke people is a fairly easy strategy for the G.O.P. to execute, because in many ways it’s just a repackaging of the party’s long-standing backlash approach. For decades, Republicans have used somewhat vague terms (“dog whistles”) to tap into and foment resentment against traditionally marginalized groups like Black Americans who are pushing for more rights and freedoms. This resentment is then used to woo voters (mostly white) wary of cultural, demographic and racial change.
Among the reasons Republicans will continue to adopt an “anti-woke posture,” Bacon writes, is that it
gives conservative activists and Republican officials a way to excuse extreme behavior in the past and potentially rationalize such behavior in the future. Republicans are trying to recast the removal of Trump’s accounts from Facebook and Twitter as a narrative of liberal tech companies silencing a prominent conservative, instead of those platforms punishing Trump for using them to “incite violence and encourage overturning the election results.”
Insofar as Republicans suppress Democratic votes, Bacon continued,
or try to overturn election results in future elections, as seems entirely possible, the party is likely to justify that behavior in part by suggesting the Democrats are just too extreme and woke to be allowed to control the government. The argument would be that Democrats would eliminate police departments and allow crime to surge if they have more power, so they must be stopped at all costs. Polls suggest a huge bloc of G.O.P. voters is already open to such apocalyptic rhetoric.
Bacon’s views are widely shared among Democratic Party strategists, whether or not they will say so publicly. And Bacon is hardly alone.
In a piece in New York magazine, “Is ‘Anti-Wokeness’ the New Ideology of the Republican Party?” Ed Kilgore makes the case that for Republicans
Casting a really wide range of ideas and policies as too woke and anyone who is critical of them as being canceled by out-of-control liberals is becoming an important strategy and tool on the right — in fact, this cancel culture/woke discourse could become the organizing idea of the post-Trump-presidency Republican Party.
This approach is particularly attractive to conservative politicians and strategists, Kilgore continued, because
It allows them and their supporters to pose as innocent victims of persecution rather than as aggressive culture warriors seeking to defend their privileges and reverse social change.
Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at N.Y.U., argued in an email that the policies the Democratic Party’s left wing is pushing are an anchor weighing down the party’s prospects:
Wokeness is kryptonite for the Democrats. Most people hate it, other than the progressive activists. If you just look at Americans’ policy preferences, Dems should be winning big majorities. But we have strong negative partisanship, and when people are faced with a party that seems to want to defund the police and rename schools, rather than open them, all while crime is rising and kids’ welfare is falling, the left flank of the party is just so easy for Republicans to run against.
In much gentler terms, Barack Obama has voiced analogous concerns. “This idea of purity and you’re never compromised and you’re always politically woke and all that stuff, you should get over that quickly,” Obama famously declared in October 2019:
The world is messy. There are ambiguities. People who do really good stuff have flaws. People who you are fighting may love their kids and share certain things with you.
James Carville, the top strategist for Bill Clinton’s 1992 presidential campaign, was succinct in his assessment. He recently told Sean Illing, a writer at Vox:
Wokeness is a problem and everyone knows it. It’s hard to talk to anybody today — and I talk to lots of people in the Democratic Party — who doesn’t say this. But they don’t want to say it out loud.
“Why not?” Illing asked.
“Because they’ll get clobbered.”
Carville’s answer provides insight into the question of whether, if the left wing of the Democratic Party is backing many policies that are unacceptable to a majority of voters and if some of those policies appear to violate constitutional protections of free speech and the rights of the accused, why hasn’t there been more pushback in both politics and academia?
I asked Jonathan Rauch, a senior fellow at Brookings and the author of the new book “The Constitution of Knowledge: A Defense of Truth,” about the lack of pushback, and he suggested a series of factors:
“The younger generation (wrongly) perceives free speech as hazardous to minority rights.”
“The purist side has had more passion, focus and organization than the pluralist side.”
“Universities are consumeristic these days and very image-conscious, and so they have trouble withstanding pressure from their ‘customers,’ e.g., activist students.”
“The use of social pressure to manipulate opinion is a powerful and sophisticated form of information warfare. Anyone can be dogpiled in minutes for any reason, or no reason.”
“Activists have figured out that they can have disproportionate influence by claiming to be physically endangered and psychologically traumatized by speech that offends them.”
Randall Kennedy, a law professor at Harvard and the author of the forthcoming book “Say It Loud! On Race, Law, History and Culture,” cited in an email a similar set “of reasons for the deficient response to threats against freedom of thought, expression and learning emanating from the left.”
His list:
“Woke” folk making wrongful demands march under the banner of “EQUALITY” which is a powerful and attractive emblem, especially in this George Floyd/Covid-19 moment when the scandalous inequities of our society are so heartbreakingly evident. On the campuses, many of the most vocal woke folk are students whom teachers and administrators want to mollify, comfort and impress. Many teachers and administrators seek desperately to be liked by students.
At the same time, Kennedy continued, many of the people demanding the diminution of what he sees as essential freedoms have learned how to package their insistence in effective ways. They have learned, Kennedy wrote, to deploy skillfully the language of “hurt” — as in “I don’t care what the speaker’s intentions were, what the speaker said has hurt my feelings and ought therefore to be prohibited.”[MUSIC PLAYING] (SINGING) When you walk in a room, do you have sway?
kara swisher
In “Sway,” I examine power. Who’s got it, and how it works. Esther Perel’s power is the quiet kind. She may be the world’s most famous couples counselor, and her work has influenced millions of people. I certainly know it’s influenced me. In Perel’s podcasts, “Where Should We Begin?” and “How’s Work,” people spill their deepest, darkest secrets.
archived recording And I can’t get enough of an erection. Is it fair to say you’re a little jealous of Jean-Claude? They made a crack about me not being their real father. archived recording (esther perel) Who is “they?” archived recording My children.
kara swisher
I’m not going to give her any secrets here. In fact, I don’t really have any good secrets. But I am going to seek her advice in this crazy and exciting time. [MUSIC PLAYING] You know, I just got married last month. I got married again for the second time, which I always call a triumph of hope over experience. No, I actually had a very good relationship previously, too. Any relationship advice for me? I’ve been married a month, so anything I need to keep in mind?
esther perel
And you have a baby.
kara swisher
I have a baby. We did that before the marriage, yes, exactly.
esther perel
And how old is your baby?
kara swisher
A year and a month, essentially. We married the day after her first birthday. And she’s amazing.
esther perel
Wonderful.
kara swisher
Of the no boons of the pandemic, having the baby around has been one that’s been a joy. So any advice for me, in a month? I think I’m doing OK. I think I’m doing good.
esther perel
Well, I just thought of two questions that I think you could have fun with. One is for both of you, for that matter. Knowing yourself, as well as you do know yourself, what would you say is one thing that makes it hard to live with you?
kara swisher
Oh God. That’s a really good question. I can be impatient. I like to do everything quickly. I’m a very candid person. So even around logistics, or everything else. So I think I move a little faster. And I think I’m probably too fast-moving for most people. That’s what I would say.
esther perel
OK. So you can spend a little time, the two of you, and this goes on. So when I’m impatient, it manifests in this way. And this is what effect it has in our relationship. And it may very well be that she was attracted to me, in part, because I’m quick on the go, resolute, action-oriented. And that I have an attraction to the fact that she can be more contemplative or reflective and less reactive, and all of that. So then, from there, you explore the complementarity. So that’s one question. And then the other one would be, what’s a vulnerability? I can ask it about you and I can ask it about her. What’s a vulnerability that you grapple with?
kara swisher
Oh, I don’t have a lot.
esther perel
But let me put it inuit her. What’s a vulnerability that you would say she grapples with?
kara swisher
Well, I wouldn’t say there’s a lot of them. I think she probably would say her career. Because she is focused on the baby now, which I think is wonderful and just as laudable.
esther perel
Of course. And then I would say, because one is a question about self-awareness, the other one is a question about empathic awareness. So the second one then becomes, and how do you relate to that question of hers? And you just said, I actually totally support her, I don’t look down on her, I think that’s not laudable. And how does she respond to your support? I think that those are two questions that every relationship can ask itself one month into marriage or not. If you want to change the other, change yourself. That would be another one.
kara swisher
Oh Wow, that’s a big one. It’s interesting, because at the beginning of the pandemic, she was sort of doom scrolling every terrible thing. And I’m like, let’s just go. Let’s just move on, we can’t get stuck into this. But now, with this election, the doom scrolling continues. And I’m like, It’ll work, it’ll work. No, don’t worry about a thing.
esther perel
I think that any crisis will sharpen the differences in people’s coping style. And one of the differences is that one person may want to charge ahead and do things and fix things, and try to control destiny in some way. And the other person wants to gather all the information and be really clear as to what is the course of action we should take. One person becomes highly practical.
kara swisher
Yeah, except in the morning when I wake up and doom scroll, like, guess what happened last night. I’m like, no, I don’t want to know. Just, for an hour, I would like —
esther perel
Coffee first. [LAUGHS]
kara swisher
Or anything first. Sometimes I just don’t want to know because it goes away. Everybody needs to have a lot of details because they think, in details there is some salvation, I guess. And I don’t think there is.
esther perel
Actually, the research does not necessarily support that. There is this notion that there is overexposure. And that, actually, you need to really know how much to limit your media intake, your news intake. Or you basically start to disregulate, you become really stressed out. And then that becomes the next issue. Now you can start reading about stress.
kara swisher
Right, right, exactly. So that’s why I don’t like doom scrolling. So marriage expert Stephanie Coontz wrote an essay suggesting gay marriages are happier than heterosexual ones. Do you buy that?
esther perel
Yes.
kara swisher
Why is that?
esther perel
I don’t know if I would say by definition happier. But, here’s the thing. You have the pros and the cons of not having to live in the midst of pre-existing structures, narrative scripts of life, institutions. On the one hand, you lack it. Therefore, legally, you are more vulnerable. You were before anyway, for sure. But interpersonally, you get to be much more creative. You get to create families of choice. It’s much more fluid. It’s much less institutional and legacy, history, passing on one way of doing heterosexual marriage. And I think when gay couples are able to tap into that, there is much more energy.
kara swisher
Yeah, and also the movies.
esther perel
This is long known.
kara swisher
But the expectations thing is, when a lot of my friends see those movies, there’s all this imagery that they seem imprisoned by in a lot of ways.
esther perel
I would say all couples who are able to not be constrained by pre-existing ideas of how it should be, which gay couples have less of it. Because nobody actually addressed them before as couples.
kara swisher
Same thing with parenting, too, which is interesting. I have two teenage children and we just had the baby. But everyone’s like, which one’s the dad. Straight people constantly are like, which one’s the dad. And I’m like, no one. Or everyone.
esther perel
I think the distinction that you highlighted before is much more salient. You have a front line parent. Which is your wife, who is, at this point more dedicated to the daughter. And her sense of time, her boundaries, her needs are much more permeated with the needs of the baby. And you are, in that sense able to maintain much more of a sense of separateness. You are at work, you’re doing your thing. That line between the front line parent and the other parent, between the parent who thinks about the needs of the child and the parents who thinks about the needs of the couple.
kara swisher
That’s true.
esther perel
Those complementarities, I think, are much more functional. They are sometimes gender-based in straight marriages. But I think that it narrows us to think about it, actually, only in gender terms.
kara swisher
Yes. 100%. Let’s talk about that idea of power, then. You’ve called sex the oldest power exchange system. What role does power play in a romantic or sexual relationship?
esther perel
Look, there is no relationship without power. The ingredient power appears the moment I need you. You have power over your baby. But if your baby decides not to sleep the whole night and cry, she has power over you. Ask anyone with a two-year-old. Power is not always vertical and coming from the top down. So power is something that you have to. Power to do things, it’s a generative power. And power over, that you have over somebody else. And it is a very intricate thing. The moment I depend on you in, some way, you have power over me. And I decide, and we decide in the relationship how we manage it. So it starts from the beginning. It starts from the beginning. It’s part of the basic ingredients of what goes into a relationship. The same way that we say trust starts the moment you begin to develop a relationship, so does the existence of power. Around, sexuality one power is the power to coerce. The other is the power to systematically refuse. The other is the power to oblige. To just make you feel like, get it done, get it over with. To demean, to trivialize, to humiliate. All of these have power in them.
kara swisher
Right. Is it typical that one person has power in a relationship, or it just depends on what moment?
esther perel
I think that some relationships are very clearly positioned with one person having more power than the other. But we need to say about what. It’s decision making. It’s the money-earning, it’s owns the children, has appropriated the children, gets to define the story of the relationship. What is the power we’re talking about? It changes. It’s extreme. When people say a power dynamic, they think of a structure. In fact, they should be thinking about something that is highly dynamic. It shifts all the time.
kara swisher
Yeah. So one of the things a lot of your work, like your book, “The State of Affairs,” focuses on is infidelity, which is another power exchange. You said people who cheat on their partners are exercising freedom and the power of transgression. What did you mean by that?
esther perel
Adultery is a taboo. Weaker than it was in some circles, but it is still majorly a taboo. Therefore, when you do the forbidden, you experience a sense of freedom and power. The power of agency, the power of doing what I want, which is sometimes even reinforced when I know that I do what I’m not supposed to. And so it empowers. In that sense, it becomes an act of freedom, an act of reclamation, sometimes agency, sometimes liberation. Sometimes just simple selfishness. It’s all of that. That’s on the part of the person who does it. On the part of the receiving person, the experience of the violation of trust, the betrayal, shatters all their assumptions about a shared reality. I thought we were in this together, I thought you had my back, I thought you would never do something like that to hurt me. It is painful beyond. So what it means for one person is very different from what it does to the other person. And that’s why the experience of infidelity in a relationship is so polarizing. A little bit like what’s happening in the nation at this moment.
kara swisher
A perfect transition. A little bit like what’s happening to our nation. The toxicity to our country, it feels like a bad marriage.
esther perel
I often think that couples therapists have a certain experience with polarized . Relationships We sit very often with two people who have no shared well affects. You wonder if what they’re talking about happened in the same relationship. They systematically think that they are a rainbow with many nuances and their partner is all in black and white. They think that when they do certain things that are not nice, then it’s circumstantial. And when their partner does mean things, it’s characterological. And they have very little ability to not experience the other person’s point of view as a threat. In that sense, there are quite a lot of similarities with what’s happening on a national level. We have actually shifted at this moment. Anand Giridharadas said a beautiful sentence, “We are a nation that is no longer just in disagreement, we have disgust.” And in intimate relationships, contempt is the killer. That’s the one that tops all of them. And this disgust that we have right now, there is a sense that the other people are fundamentally different creatures. What planet do they live on?
kara swisher
So what do you do with that? How do you move on from that when it feels so personal and emotional, and you’re disgusted with people.
esther perel
That is why, I think, that I look at this group of parents in the Middle East. In Israeli and Palestinian parents, I just saw people who came together on the basis of their raw grief on loss. Not on the politics. That’s one thing they shared. They could, of course, say, it was your terrorist attack, it was your destruction of my house. But they managed to first meet as mothers who lost their beloved child, as fathers who lost. And I think that since the one thing that we all have in common at this moment here is stress, acute stress and prolonged uncertainty and anticipatory grief, that’s where I would start. You meet people and you don’t start talking about their ideas. Their ideas are often fueled by their fears, by their longings, by their scarcity, by their hopes. And then we applied to the American situation.
kara swisher
That’s interesting. Because I have a family of many Trumpers. And it’s really hard to speak to them. I have to say. They never shut up. I actually talk less than they do about their grievances. And I have particular problems, for example, with my mom. And it’s constantly, because she’s on Fox News. And we had a big argument over Covid because she kept going out. But just recently, it got even worse, because I did this interview with Hillary Clinton. And she hadn’t heard my interview, but she was getting it filtered through Fox News, and whatever the heck else she looks at. I guess Breitbart, or whatever. And she misrepresented my own reporting to me in order to attack Joe Biden. Which I’m like, it’s just my choice for president. And it was like I didn’t quite know what to do, except I just stopped talking. I was like, I’m just not going to talk anymore. Until this election’s over, I cannot speak to you.
esther perel
I’m going to try this from a different angle. What I would say is you’re arguing with your mother over content. The form always precedes the content. This is extremely important for understanding these impasses in relationships. So you go to your mom and you say, you know mom, I know you to be someone who usually cares a lot about, people pays attention to people. You have a big heart. And you go from that place. And you say, it was very upsetting to me today because I’ve come to know you differently. And if she continues with content, you repeat it again. You just stay with the process. Because we are Homo Sapiens, we really think that you resolve something by digging further into the topic. When in fact, if we were animals we would just be doing faces right now, and sounds. And when you see that the sounds don’t make sense and don’t accomplish anything, you have got to go around to their feelings, to the emotional connection that you have with her. I know that it would devastate you if any of us were ever sick. I know that you are that kind of a mother.
kara swisher
Maybe.
esther perel
It doesn’t matter if it’s true. That’s probably who she wants to be. It’s how she wants to be seen. Talk to the person, not from their lowest part. Talk to her from her aspiration.
kara swisher
But I’ll have to tell you, a lot of people who have this problem with Trump supporters in their family, for example, they literally just don’t talk. Not talking sometimes feels better. No communication. I know that sounds crazy, and the pandemic makes it easy.
esther perel
Thanksgiving is coming up. So people will be with their families. And I don’t think that when people don’t resolve a political difference or an ideological difference that that’s what it’s about. What it’s about is that one person feels disrespected by the other, betrayed by the other. It’s these kind of things that create the breach, not the ideas themselves.
kara swisher
So you’re essentially saying one person has to be the bigger person and move in and solve it.
esther perel
You don’t solve. You don’t solve, you just maintain a connection. You just say there are certain things we absolutely do not talk about or don’t agree on. When we start, we have a screaming match. But we have a foundation underneath us, that if anything happens between us, there is a love, there is a trust, there is a reliance, there is a dependability. And those things are holding us together. A friend of mine was telling me how in her family, her grandfather was a leader in the Ku Klux Klan. Her aunties are white supremacists. And her mother passed away. And her aunties, her aunts, are her connection to her mother. She wants a connection to her mother and she disagrees fundamentally with the world view of these aunts. And how would she straddle that? And everybody internally, if you can tap into old memories, if you can still have a connection to the mother, if there is something a motivation to remain with these people, then you do what you call “the bridge.” You don’t bridge your values. You don’t bridge your ideology. You don’t. And you sometimes live and you say, in my family there are people, who if ever I was not their family member and something was to happen to me, they would not come to help me. And that is a very hard truth to live with. And some people will manage to live with the ambivalence about that person and still stay connected. And some will say, I get sick from this and I don’t want to be with these people.
kara swisher
So there’s some relationships not worth bridging or saving.
esther perel
Of course. It’s not that they’re not worth it, you don’t have the motivation. Even on the racist front. I tried to look, for me, about situations that help me not get completely ensnared in a place from which there is no exit. So as a child of Holocaust survivors, one of the things I remember often hearing about is the people who were hiding the Jewish children. They could be virulently anti-Semitic. But if a hungry kid stood at the door of the farmer, which was usually the woman, she was often likely to give him or her a piece of bread. Or even hide them in their attic for months on end. Because the religious value, the Christian value of charity and seeing a hungry child superseded the other ideology. I think in moments of choice, some people are completely linear and will act exactly according to their racist ideology. And some people have a mix of things. And on an individual level they may act differently than on an ideological level.
kara swisher
Right, because they’re appealing to those particular characteristics.
esther perel
Because we have other values inside of us too.
kara swisher
They’re warring with each other.
esther perel
Right, it helps me to think like this. It does it doesn’t apply to everybody, but I think that it helps me maintain the sense that it’s not black and white. Because then we have no conversation to be had.
kara swisher
Well speaking of no conversation to be had, I’m going to move you to politics. Dysfunctional relationships. Congress. Nancy Pelosi, when I interviewed her, talked about having not talked to Trump for a year. Obviously, she and Mitch McConnell have to get along. What tips do you give to Republicans and Democrats who have burned bridges with each other?
esther perel
I mean, I think, Nancy Pelosi is completely off.
kara swisher
Because?
esther perel
Because I think that he relishes her anger. He relishes it.
kara swisher
So she should, like, hug him.
esther perel
Yes. Look, I think that what I’m going to say is good because I can put weight behind what I say for relationships. On a political frame, it could sound naive, what I’m going to say. But one piece that travels with me is, sometimes it is more important to be wise than to be right. You don’t have to make your point. Everybody knows what you think. So ask yourself, does this serve me? If you don’t talk to somebody, does this serve you? Or do you actually think you would get more by maintaining a communication? Or are there other people that you can put in place to continue the communication, because you want to play the part of the angry one who doesn’t bend? But you have other people who do stay in touch. Because if you have no connection to the people that you need to ultimately work something out with, then you won’t work anything out. And that’s why we’ve had paralysis, paralysis, paralysis. One paralysis was, I can’t move until you agree with me. And there are other paralysis, I can’t move because I need you to join me on some level. And if you don’t join me, I can’t do anything. So this is what we’ve had. The goal here is to find out, how do you get things done? My fear is, really, that.
kara swisher
So how do you? You’re the therapist, how do you? What would you do?
esther perel
I would just say, they obviously care about this as very much. They wouldn’t be digging their heels If they didn’t care. It’s a re-frame. I think what I get into is big re-frames that prevent me from being completely stuck. My thinking when I look at a system like that is, what do I do with a stuck system? It’s like crust in a pan. You just want to have it first move a tiny bit to create movement. And that generally goes from humor, to ingratiating, to taking the other person by surprise and doing the opposite of what they expect you to do. They expect you to be angry and to shout at them you actually basically go and you say how are you today. We call it discontinuity. You take them by surprise. Because the more you do what they expect you to do, the more they will respond the way that you’ve expected them to respond. And off we go. So it’s these small micro-movements that you do when you want to take a stuck system and bring it to life, give it possibilities. I don’t know if that works on a larger scale. I am not an expert on that. And so I’m going to stick to what I know.
kara swisher
So let’s talk a little bit about Trump himself. How do we move on from him? He is like a bad boyfriend. He occupies our social minds, our political minds, our cultural minds. Is it an addiction in a lot of ways?
esther perel
No. Trumpism is going to stay. National populism from the right is on the rise all over the world. This is the American version of it. And he embodies that. This is not a bad boyfriend that you pass over at all. He’s not going anywhere. He represents and has cultivated and has been shaped by that anti-institutional aspiration in which he is the master. He is utterly brilliant.
kara swisher
Transgressions, transgressions.
esther perel
Not of transgression, of delusion. This is grandiosity.
kara swisher
So what does that work and why the addiction to him? Because I think everybody, on both sides, has an addiction to this personality. Why can nobody look away?
esther perel
Because malignant narcissism has tremendous power over people in that sense. It has the power when it is charming. It has the power when it is vindictive. It has the power when it is vengeful and punitive. It has the power when it creates delusions. It has the power because it makes you see what you would like to see, even if that’s not what is there. It has the power because it says, trust me I’ve got it in my hands. Leave it up to me, I’ll make it happen for you. It is seductive on so many levels. Not just in America.
kara swisher
We’ll be back in a minute. If you like this interview want to hear more, hit subscribe. You’ll be able to catch up on “Sway” episodes you’ve missed, like my conversation with sci-fi novelist Jeff VanderMeer. And you’ll also get new ones delivered to you. More with Esther Perel after the break. So I want to finish up talking about the pandemic. So you wrote this book in 2006 called “Mating in Captivity,” which I think is very resonant today. The title has taken on a new meaning in the quarantine. And you’ve called the pandemic a Petri dish moment for relationships. How is the experiment going?
esther perel
Right now it’s like swimming through molasses.
kara swisher
Yeah exactly, the petri dish is bigger than that.
esther perel
Look, I would say it like this. Pandemics, disasters, are relationship accelerators. You become aware of mortality. You say, I live once. Life is short. What am I waiting for? And what am I waiting for can be, let’s have babies, let’s get married. Otherwise, what am I waiting for can be I’m out of here. So I think, in general, when we are facing this existential reality, we rearrange our priorities. So that’s one thing that is happening in many, many people’s lives. What matters to us truly at this moment and let’s throw the rest overboard a little bit. The next thing is, some people have been really dealing with the suffocation of 24/7. Some people have really enjoyed coming together as families like they hadn’t in a long time. Some people are so appreciative of the fact that they haven’t had to fly all the time.
kara swisher
I have to say I’m the latter. I’ve been enjoying time with my kids.
esther perel
You have?
kara swisher
Yeah, and my partner. Yeah, it’s been great, actually.
esther perel
So that’s one story we hear a lot, is people really feel that they’ve had time to slow down to connect with their kids and all of that. Other people have dealt with the excruciating choices of where to put their grandparents, how not to let the grandparents come and see the grandchildren. Dealing with illness, dealing with death, dealing with loneliness, dealing with not seeing their family that is living abroad. People are struggling with the too much and the too little. People are struggling with redefining our relationship to space. We are avoiding the stranger like never before. Everything that is happenstance, chance encounter, curiosity. The erotic side of life has been cut off from us. That is very challenging to people. Many people are touch-starved. That’s happening to many of us.
kara swisher
And then I’d love to get back to, in this pandemic, not only do we have our partners, we have them around all the time. What happens to sex drive and intimacy?
esther perel
I think that it’s well known that stress can go in both directions when it comes to sex. But most of the time it goes in the direction of shutting you down. I was talking yesterday with Justin Garcia who is the head of the Kinsey Institute. He said, “two gazelles won’t mate in front of a lion.” That’s a great line, it’s a great line.
kara swisher
[LAUGHS]
esther perel
That’s what’s happening at this point. But they have done research on sex under Covid and, on the other end, while stress has constricted us, there is also findings that show that people have shared more fantasy with each other. When they do remain active, freedom in confinement comes through your imagination.
kara swisher
That’s interesting.
esther perel
But some people, at this point, even their friends they don’t touch. And their children they don’t touch. And people are touch-starved. And you can live without sex. But we don’t live well without touch. We become irritable, depressed, aggressive. Touch is vital food for us. Our body is our biggest organ, the skin. And it needs to be touched. It soothes us, it calms us, it reassures us, it connects us. What does it mean to work remote? When are we going to be able to once again come together like this?
kara swisher
How do you get back from that? Do you think people will, or do they kind of like this state? You counseling sessions focus on work, and your podcast “How’s Work,” how is that going to change?
esther perel
When you work, at this moment, you’re not working from home. You’re working with home. All your roles are collapsing while you’re sitting on the same chair at the same table. You are colleague, boss, parent, lover, friend, all of it. And no boundaries, no transitions. That is part of the exhaustion. People usually experience their activities in a localized way. You go to the gym, you go to the restaurant, you go to see friends, you change, your drive in between. It’s in space and in time you transition. You don’t have any of that right now. So it’s very important for people to create routines, boundaries, rituals, that delineate between the personal the professional, the day and the evening, the work and the leisure. And more than ever, people will probably continue to appreciate whatever can be digitized, you can do remote. Whatever is interpersonal. That is the serendipitous, the creative. The connections of people that come together to work, to do things, you will need to at some point find ways to come back together.
kara swisher
Do you think people will stay in the remote zone? Because a lot of bosses —
esther perel
No, they’re really hybrids.
kara swisher
— are talking about it.
esther perel
Everybody is talking about relational intelligence in the workplace at this moment. Everyone’s talking about empathic leadership, the soft skills gap, the importance of wellness and mental health in the workplace. Everyone understands that certain things can remain remote and maybe there’s an advantage to that. And if there is an option for hybrid, that’s OK. But everything that touches on the interpersonal, people are seeing the effects of the lack thereof. And we may not come back to the same office in the same way, with open cubicles and all of this stuff. But we understand that you cannot replace in-person.
kara swisher
In-person relationships. So you don’t think that’s good.
esther perel
In-person and interpersonal.
kara swisher
But people feel you can. Because people have done OK with Zoom. I mean, how do you look at something like Zoom?
esther perel
You do tasks. You can do projects. But can I walk with you to the coffee machine, and in between you say, “what are you working on?” And I say something, and I say, why don’t you come see me in my office for a second. And then suddenly I discovered that there is a whole other division in the company that I didn’t know of, and now you become my mentor.
kara swisher
So you cannot do those without being physically present.
esther perel
No. Because the meetings are stilted. We are sitting here on this screen, we only see half bodies. And then we basically close and we go into the next one, into the next one. We can accomplish things. It’s not like we can’t. But task is only one portion of what happens at work. And, especially today, work is an identity project. It’s a place where we go to experience meaning, community, belonging, purpose. And money, and survival.
kara swisher
So if this is going to go on for six more months or if people really move, how do you maintain the intimacy of work?
esther perel
I have done a lot with my own team. I’ve tried out ways to really talk with each other, check in with each other about all kinds of things that are not specifically related to what we are doing in work. So that we’re asking people about how their self care, we have conversations about political differences inside their family. We talk, actually, not about what they do, but who they are and what’s happening for them.
kara swisher
So that’s a technique.
esther perel
So that there is a sense with each other. Now, I have a small team. But as a whole, that the idea is, take time away from those meetings and make sure to reach out to the people. And to talk to them, and to find out what’s going on in their home.
kara swisher
And in terms of creating the boundary between life and work, what’s the one or two things people should do?
esther perel
Small things of all sorts. Change. Get dressed when you go to work. Change, make a demarcation. If you say that we’re going to spend the evening together, if you go out it’s one thing, but if you are going to stay home, imagine yourself actually going out.
kara swisher
Demarcation.
esther perel
Demarcation. Clothing is a very good demarcation. But also clearing the space. Demarcation is going outside for a walk for a moment, and just half an hour or 20 minutes, something that takes you away from the thing. Demarcation is music. It’s listening to not just words, but music. Demarcation is movement. Do not stay, this is extremely stilted. You get exhausted on Zoom. Partly because I think I’m looking at you but I’m actually not. We can’t have eye contact. And I think I look at you, but I’m searching for you on the screen the whole time. And you sit, and you sit. So all of these things are basic, small interventions that I think you see everywhere. There’s nothing unique in what I will prescribe on.
kara swisher
And removing technology is one thing. Whether you’re on your Pelotons, or you’re on your phones, or other things. I’m in love with my phone. I wanted to marry my phone at one point. You said we should look to children for ways to deal with these stressful times. I agree with you, having a baby, and my kids have been really. Great, not perfect. But I think my kids are handling it better than I am in lot of ways. What can we learn from children?
esther perel
I think that freedom in confinement comes through our imagination. It’s directly taken from children. A child sits in front of you, they stand up, they turn around, and they say “And now, I am the Sheriff.” “And now, I am the teacher.” They can instantly, through their imagination, elude reality, enter another world, play and escape the limits of reality that are weighing on them. The one thing we have is our imagination. It’s what people have used in confinement, in jail, in concentration camps, always.
kara swisher
It is so hard to do it, now. It’s you’re so stressed. I watched my daughter play with keys for a half an hour the other day. I was so comforted by her playing. And she was obsessed with the keys, just staring at them, over and over again. And I thought, how is she doing that?
esther perel
Partly, if you diminish some of the news-watching. You need to wean yourself a little bit.
kara swisher
I’m scared, there’s an election at stake. And I have an impact on it, if only I watched, I will be the one affecting it.
esther perel
But more of the same will actually not be the thing that helps you. You may have more chance to have a new thought if you’re less listening to the cacophony and you actually remove yourself for a moment and you let your mind open up. And thoughts will come and you actually may have insights that you don’t have when all you hear is the same all the time, whichever side you’re on.
kara swisher
That is a fair point. So, Esther, do you want to therapize Donald Trump any more? You said it’s impossible. Do you feel like you could do it? If he leaves, if he has some time?
esther perel
No. No, I would be working harder than him. And that would make me more responsible for his change than he himself. And that is never a good option for a therapist.
kara swisher
So are there people not available for therapy?
esther perel
Of course. Of course. There are people who do not experience the ache. Because the ache is deflected on others. Others experience the consequences of their behavior. So they have to carry no responsibility for it. And when you work with people like that, you work harder than them. You can never work harder than the patient themselves in therapy. You can’t want your kids to do their homework more than they would want it themselves. You observe. And then you carry the burden. And why would they do it, then, because you’re holding it for them. So you cannot work in therapy. No, not everybody is a candidate for therapy.
kara swisher
All right, so for those of us who are, we going to be OK Esther? You have to say yes. You don’t.
esther perel
Yes, I think we will be OK. I think that people have endured a lot. I actually think this is a moment to look at everybody in America. Black people in America, people who have not had privilege, anybody who hasn’t had privilege. And we learn a lot from these people. They continue to love, they continue to celebrate, they continue to have children. My parents came out of five years of concentration camp and the first thing they did was have a child. Because that showed that they were still human. And I think that there is a spirit in us that will continue to create the world that we live in. And then mixed with grief, and mixed with sadness, and mixed with loss, and mixed with rage, we will continue to do what we’ve done forever.
kara swisher
Esther, thank you so much, as usual.
esther perel
It’s a pleasure. Thank you, me too.
kara swisher
Beautiful, beautiful discussion. I really appreciate it.
esther perel
You liked it?
kara swisher[THEME MUSIC] (SINGING) When you walk in the room, do you have sway?
kara swisher
Do I know how to play chess? I do not. Does it matter? It does not. But I now know what the Sicilian defense is, because like a lot of people these days, my favorite new show is “The Queen’s Gambit” on Netflix.
archived recording Start your clock.
kara swisher
It’s about a young chess prodigy named Beth. It’s the 1960s, and she wants to be the world’s greatest chess player, which mostly means crushing one male opponent after another. That’s certainly satisfying, and she rocks. But the character I was most drawn to was not Beth. It was her adoptive mother, Alma.
alma
Though I’m no longer a wife, except by a legal fiction, I believe I can learn to be a mother.
kara swisher
Alma is played by Marielle Heller. It’s a breakout role for her, but she was already a big name off the screen. Heller directed Tom Hanks in “A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood” and Melissa McCarthy and Richard E Grant in “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” All three actors got Oscar nominations, but neither film got a best director nod. That was a mistake, as is underestimating Marielle Heller. Can you talk about why you called your production company Defiant by Nature?
marielle heller
I think being a female director, a question I get asked a lot that feels like veiled sexism is people will say, how did you know to trust your voice? How did you know that you could do this job? Things in that line. And my answer is often the same, which is, I never knew I shouldn’t, first of all, which part of it, I think, is growing up in the Bay Area. And we’re taught to be individuals and that you should stand out in a crowd. That’s valued over fitting in. But also, I had great parents. I had a great family. Nobody ever told me that I should stop raising my hand in class or that I should become — as a girl, that I should somehow become less confident. I just — I didn’t get the memo, was sort of my joke that I would say when people would ask me that.
kara swisher
Yeah, so you called it Defiant. Defiant is also — defiant is sometimes seen as a negative word. I think it’s a wonderful word.
marielle heller
Yeah. I was always seen as defiant. And I did know that as a kid. It just wasn’t something that was stamped out of me. I often had problems in school where I would stand up to teachers or I would believe that something they were saying was wrong. And I would make some kind of a big stand about it, because that’s just how I grew up. And so I did always know that I had this kind of defiant streak, that I didn’t like authority, I didn’t believe grownups were inherently more right than kids. And so it’s kind of been always a part of my personality, but it became clearer to me because I’ve had to reflect on myself, because people constantly asked me how I got where I am today. How did you become such a confident director? And I’ve had to kind of look back and go, I guess that’s weird that I’m not defiant. But that’s who I am.
kara swisher
Yeah. It’s so interesting how we use words like bossy. I was called bossy a lot.
marielle heller
Oh yeah.
kara swisher
Or difficult. And difficult and unlikeable — not, not — more unlikeable, because I learned how to be funny in order to get rid of that one.
marielle heller
Right.
kara swisher
Difficult is always my favorite. I’m like, yes, I am difficult. Yes, that is correct. Like, I don’t know what else to say.
marielle heller
Unlikeable, I mean, I’ve talked about this a lot, but it’s such a problematic word when we’re talking about characters. And I think people have gotten the memo that now you really shouldn’t say that about a female character, but for so long, the characters I wanted to write in movies, people would say, well, aren’t you worried that she’s unlikeable? And I just would always say, were we worried that Tony Soprano was unlikable? [LAUGHS]
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
marielle heller
Or were we worried about — I mean, the most interesting characters in any film or TV that happen to be male, we never ask if we’re worried that they’re unlikable, that they murder people or do terrible things.
kara swisher
Yeah, absolutely. So let’s talk a little bit about your work. You have this role in this Netflix drama “The Queen’s Gambit“, which is about a chess prodigy who upends the very male dominated world of competitive chess. Talk about how you wanted to get back into this. You had been making movies and said you were tired of directing for a minute. It sounds like, oh, I’m exhausted. I’ll take this role.
marielle heller
Yeah, I wasn’t seeking out an acting part, and that’s the worst thing I could say to any actor, because the worst part about acting is that you spend 98% of your time trying to get a job. And that was part of why I stopped acting was because I was feeling so stifled by the process and by the fact —
kara swisher
It’s rejective at every step of the way.
marielle heller
Yeah. And that I wasn’t in control of when I got to do my art. I wasn’t in control of when I got to be creative. And so I started writing, really, as an antidote to that. So I feel bad saying that this role just fell into my lap, because I know how every actor in the world will feel about that, which is like, you (WHISPERING) fucking asshole.
kara swisher
[LAUGHS] You can say that on this.
marielle heller
Can I? I never know. I feel like every actor in the world will be like, I hate you. I cannot believe that. That’s an incredible role, and you just had it handed to you. But the truth is, I did. I’m friends with Scott Frank. I had played a really small part in a movie he made called “A Walk Among the Tombstones“. As a lark, I went in and kind of did this little part for him. And it got cut out of the movie totally, but his wife, Jennifer, was on set that day, and she looked at him and went. oh, she’s actually a really good actor. So he, from that point on, said, I’m going to make you act for me. And his intention was not to have me be in this huge of a part in this project. I was actually going to be a different part, and there was an actress cast as this part who fell out.
kara swisher
What was the part? What was your other part?
marielle heller
I was going to play her biological mother.
kara swisher
Oh interesting.
marielle heller
And I thought, that’ll be fun. I’ll go and do a little acting part. It’ll be fun. And then the actress who was to play Alma fell out. And Scott called me and said, I want you to come play this part. I was like, you have got to be kidding me. Netflix never — I know how casting works. Netflix is never going to let you cast me. No one’s going to let you do that. Why would they let you do that? They can’t even look at my acting reel. There’s nothing to look at. And he was like, oh, I already talked to everybody. They’re all fine with it. I mean, he has a lot of trust in him as a director, the fact that he could say that he wanted to cast me and they all somehow said that was OK.
kara swisher
So what did you think of the character of Alma Wheatley? She’s a 1960s housewife. She’s an alcoholic. She hasn’t made it in her area of passion, which is playing the piano, music.
marielle heller
Right.
kara swisher
She’s defined by her marriage. How did you relate to this character? It could have gone a certain way, because there’s been, that character’s been around the block quite a bit. But you have — you made very different.
marielle heller
I found her to be so tragic in such a sweet and sad way. I definitely connected to the fact that she could have had a different life if she had been born in a different time, if she had not been a housewife, if she had not been a ‘50s and ‘60s housewife who’d got stuck in a bad marriage. She had these dreams of being a pianist and being an artist. She sort of has this artistic soul, and she could have done so many things. She could have just had such a different life, and she has this sort of passion inside of her, which you get to see a little glimmer of when she has her lover in Mexico. But there’s something so tamped down about her that just made me sad. And I loved her. I found her really fascinating. And I liked that she wasn’t a stereotype. Based on the writing, like, there was no one logline about this character that —
kara swisher
She was tragic but not sad, ebullient at the same time.
marielle heller
She is tragic, but she also perks back up. She’s like a wilted flower who sees Beth’s talent and sees her going after this gift that she has, and it reminds her that she’s alive. And then she gets a taste of freedom, which is beautiful. And I also — I felt nervous about the fact that she was supposed to be drunk sometimes and was a drinker, because as a director, it’s a huge pet peeve when people play drunk poorly or on drugs poorly. It just — it’s something that I feel like —
kara swisher
Yeah, they make it into a big thing. It’s usually a very big —
marielle heller
Ugh, it’s usually awful.
kara swisher
— dramatic choice. Yeah.
marielle heller
And then when I find actors who can do it really well, like Melissa McCarthy and Richard E Grant, their drunk scenes in “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” are some of my favorite scenes, because they’re really good at it, and it’s so subtle. And it’s so — the nuanced work that goes into doing that well — I don’t know. I just think it’s really hard. So that scared me about the part but also excited me.
kara swisher
IndieWire called you the best TV drunk.
marielle heller
Oh, trust me. I’ve been using that quote with everyone I know. I’ve been called by some, TVs best drunk.
kara swisher
TV’s best drunk. What was really interesting about this entire show is you expect things to go south, and they don’t.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
You expect the alcoholism to be suddenly an accident, suddenly an embarrassment, suddenly — and sometimes it does a little bit, but it’s more real to life, where it doesn’t quite go off all the rails in the way it often does in drama.
marielle heller
It’s true. And a lot of people have told me that when they first met my character in the show, they were really nervous about where it was going —
kara swisher
Yes. I was, too.
marielle heller
— I was going to be horribly abusive or that it was going to be some awful relationship. And it’s interesting, because I remember asking Scott that same question of, like, in these first scenes when you meet me, how do you want the audience to feel? And he never would fully answer that question. So I think I’m sort of also not trying to overly project how you’re supposed to feel. I just tried to get out of my head about those sort of director questions of, like, OK, so how should the audience feel about this scene? And instead, I just tried to play the nervousness of those scenes, and the excitement, and the awkwardness, and meeting somebody and inviting them into your home. And I think it makes people feel unsteady because —
kara swisher
It does, because you’ve been trained by so much drama to expect the worst.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
The guy who taught her to play chess, I was like, ah, child abuse.
marielle heller
Right.
kara swisher
I don’t know what happened to me that I’ve seen so many of these go that — they always make that choice.
marielle heller
And it’s always sort of a bummer when you are watching something and you think, wow, they made every decision that they could to make this the worst possible thing for me to watch. LIke, it’s torture.
kara swisher
Right. And so you were sort of waiting for the punch, and —
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
— it would come. It actually — you were surprised by the kindness of people. The movie, “Booksmart“, did that to me, too.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
You expected the kids to be just awful to each other, and then they were surprisingly kind, and you’re like —
marielle heller
I agree. I love that about Booksmart. It’s more nuanced and more real the life in that the pain that comes with living is not necessarily these huge Herculean tragedies, but it still hurts.
kara swisher
Yes, absolutely. So one of the things that’s interesting is Alma is a supporting role, and everyone else has gotten a lot of attention. A lot of the character actors in this have made such an impression, compared to just the star, who is wonderful, by the way. Why do you think people are connecting to this role?
marielle heller
Well, I think part of what was fun to play was really the relationship with Beth, because it is really complex. It is not an instant, easy relationship. It is much more hard won. The two women are so — they’re both so blocked, and they both come from a place of so much pain. And yet, what they build to, the love story between them, this mother-daughter sort of weird love story that does kind of emerge throughout the series, I think it feels more real, because it is really hard to get there. And it’s not pure. It’s not just easy or pure love. It just — it has kind of strings attached at times. It feels like sort of a marriage of convenience at times. It’s got all of these different layers to it, which then, by the time it actually becomes something real, they really trust each other because they’ve actually been there for each other in a real way. And they enjoy each other, and they serve purposes for each other that nobody else has ever served. They need each other in such a major way.
kara swisher
You think it’s going to go down this sort of stage mother thing, exploitative of the younger woman, but it’s not.
marielle heller
Alma’s resourceful. She’s a woman who has never had a career and didn’t get to make money of her own, and she finds herself really at a point where she could be in trouble financially. So she’s not — it’s not like she doesn’t see the opportunity in front of her and take advantage of it. She sees that they could make money doing this and there’s something really exciting and fun to that. But just because she is resourceful and does that doesn’t mean there isn’t also genuine affection and love between them. It doesn’t mean that she doesn’t actually feel that motherly pride, which I loved playing. I loved that feeling of that she could feel so much pride for watching Beth succeed in these ways that she couldn’t even imagine was possible for a young woman. That was just so fun.
kara swisher
What would have happened to Alma if Beth hadn’t entered her life?
marielle heller
I think she was wilting away. She was going to wilt away alone in her house covered in dust, kind of just fade away into the world. And there’s something about Beth that reignites her liveliness. She reminds her to wake up. And it was such a fun arc to play, because in an alive place is not how all characters go. It was a fun evolution of a character to get her to kind of wake up throughout the series.
kara swisher
Let’s talk about the power dynamics on a set, a director, a star, a supporting actor. You’ve said a lot of directors are afraid of actors, and one of your superpowers is that you were an actor.
marielle heller
Mm-hmm.
kara swisher
Talk a little bit about that and how you operate, how the various parts of a set operate.
marielle heller
For me, the best part about making movies is the collaboration that gets to happen on set. I love it. I love working with actors. I only work with actors who will let themselves be directed, who understand and believe in the collaboration in the way that I do. Not all actors do. [LAUGHS] Some actors want to come to set and just do their thing. Some of those are fabulous actors, but they’re not the actors who I like to work with. Part of what’s so amazing about Tom Hanks is he’s this enormous movie star who believes entirely in the director and their vision and that his job is to come to set and do what the director needs for their vision. And he had so much respect for me, and it made me feel — I never felt like I was in a power struggle with anybody on my sets, because I’m always working with people who we have — you know, there’s always a period of time, I think, where, especially when I was starting out and people couldn’t look at any of my work —
kara swisher
Well, they push on your power to see.
marielle heller
Yeah, they want to know, do you actually know what you’re talking about? Do you have any sense of a vision for this? But the thing about my first movie was I had been working on it for eight or nine years by the time we went into production. Nobody knew that the movie inside and out more than me. I had written 85 drafts of that script. It was in my bones. It was my total passion. It was everything I could. So there was no — you know, as soon as an actor would sit down with me and we’d start to talk about their character, they would go, oh, OK. You’re in this. I get it. And then the power stuff is gone.
kara swisher
Well, in that power struggle, many directors don’t accept actors’ points of view, too.
marielle heller
And that’s something that I think comes out of insecurity. If a director is not willing to hear an actor’s perspective and recognize that an actor has to understand a character from the inside out, I think that has to do with directors’ insecurity. If you’re secure as a director, you can trust that an actor might come to you and say, I have this idea, and it might be better. And you can say, OK, yeah. Or you can— also, a hard part is when an actor comes to you and says they have an idea, and it’s a big actor or it’s somebody really cool. And you have to be like, no, I don’t think that’s going to work for the scene.
kara swisher
When you were working on “Queen’s Gambit“, you collaborated a little bit with Scott Frank. Did he ask for your opinion?
marielle heller
He asked her my opinion often, and I would give my opinion. But I did my damnedest to not —
kara swisher
Back seat directing.
marielle heller
— overstep and back seat direct. There was —
kara swisher
Like when? What did you change? Give me something you’ve changed in that?
marielle heller
In the show.
kara swisher
Yeah.
marielle heller
OK, I’ll give you a tiny thing.
kara swisher
Tiny.
marielle heller
But this isn’t really me changing something. This was the type of thing any actor would do, which is, I have a line where Beth and I are talking after she’s lost a match. And I say, I know something about losing. And she says, I bet you do. And the way it was written was that, and then she would get up and walk away. And I would say, to myself, essentially, and now you do, too. And I asked Scott, can I just say it to her? And he was like, oh, yeah.
kara swisher
That was a great moment.
marielle heller
It’s a powerful moment, to — she lobs an insult at me, and for me to actually lob it right back in her face, and she takes it —
kara swisher
Well, it was also wisdom. It wasn’t just an insult.
marielle heller
It’s wisdom.
kara swisher
Right.
marielle heller
It’s wisdom that has come with age and pain. And it’s also this moment where I’m like, we’re really family.
kara swisher
So what are the things you said recently was, one of my worries when I first became a director is that people wouldn’t take me seriously because I was an actor.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
And you also said, acting was part of a bigger machine. I wanted to be more in control of the bigger machine.
marielle heller
It’s a tricky thing. [LAUGHS] Part of my issue is, I look pretty young. I tend to dress like a teenager. I wear jeans and hoodies. And I don’t —
kara swisher
You don’t look like Michael Mann.
marielle heller
No. I don’t show up with a beret and a black turtleneck or a baseball cap. And like, I don’t think I’m very intimidating. I wish I was a little bit more intimidating sometimes. And I actually had one of my longtime collaborators, Anne Carey, who’s a wonderful producer who worked with me on my first two movies — she made some comment where I was lamenting that. At one point, I said, men can grow beards, and they just immediately seem older and like that they know what they’re doing. Women don’t have anything like that. And she looked at me very dryly and said, well, you could dress more like an adult.
kara swisher
[LAUGHS]
marielle heller
[LAUGHS] And that’s part of why I love Anne Carey because she’s so — cuts to the chase. But and I was like, whoa.
kara swisher
— sunglasses. I recommend sunglasses.
marielle heller
Yeah. I was like, oh, you had that one in the chamber. I think at this point, I’ve done enough that I no longer really worry about that anymore. I don’t feel like I have to dress a certain way or do anything in order for people to know I’m in charge.
kara swisher
Take you seriously on the set, yeah.
marielle heller
Or take me seriously. I mean, the easiest way to be taken seriously is have somebody like Tom Hanks call you boss and show you an incredible amount of reverence.
kara swisher
Well, he is the world’s nicest man, so —
marielle heller
He is. But he didn’t have to call me boss. Or Chris Cooper. Not every actor does that. Not every actor calls your boss. I’ve had one actor who called me ma’am. And I was like, I think that’s taking away from my authority.
kara swisher
Yeah, yeah.
marielle heller
He was like a 20-year-old actor, and I — ooh, I really didn’t like being called ma’am on set. But yeah, there’s — I worried about it more in the beginning, I think. But then I just hire people who are nice and aren’t going to treat me like that, you know. [MUSIC PLAYING]
kara swisher
We’ll be back in a minute. If you like this interview and want to hear others, hit Subscribe. You’ll be able to catch up on “Sway” episodes you may have missed, like my conversation with Jane Goodall. And you’ll get new ones delivered directly to you. More with Marielle Heller after this break. [MUSIC PLAYING] Many people felt that you were snubbed for the Best Director for “A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood“, which is about Mr. Rogers.
marielle heller
And “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” I mean, it was two years in a row of that. Yeah.
kara swisher
You said about your Oscar snub, quote, “Now I see how this system works and why this isn’t going to change anytime soon.” How do you feel now, and what did you learn about the system you didn’t know before?
marielle heller
I don’t know. I guess there’s a feeling, a naive feeling that things are supposed to be fair, that the best things are supposed to win.
kara swisher
If you just perform well enough.
marielle heller
Yeah, if you just do a good enough job, that, um — I mean, I think that’s just part of the lesson of growing up, right. It’s a self-perpetuating machine where, if we’ve made movies for 100 years about white, cis, hetero men, we’re going to all, somewhere, subconsciously, associate those characters as our heroes. And that goes for directors, too. And when I made “Can You Ever Forgive Me?“, I guess I just realized there was this like, OK, I made a small indie character movie where the two lead actors got nominated for Oscars for their performances.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm. This is Melissa McCarthy.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
Richard E. Grant.
marielle heller
Richard E. Grant, yeah, the greatest guy. And I realized, oh, when men make movies like that it’s like this auteur genius thing.
kara swisher
You dragged the performance out of them, this kind of thing —
marielle heller
Yeah. And then this movie, it was like, I — the movie got nominated, not just for a million Oscars, but for BAFTAs and WGA Awards and SAG Awards and blah blah — on and on and on and on. And I got nominated for nothing.
kara swisher
Right.
marielle heller
And it was like the movie directed itself, yeah. And then you hate yourself for wanting to win. And then you’re like, oh god, I don’t even want to be part of this contest. I don’t want to be pitted artist to artist. That’s not why we’re making this stuff.
kara swisher
Mm-hmm.
marielle heller
It all feels gross. [LAUGHS]
kara swisher
So has that changed at all, do you think? I mean, there are — Hollywood is going to change drastically, especially post-pandemic. Things —
marielle heller
Well, I don’t know.
kara swisher
— these studios are falling apart.
marielle heller
Yeah, I don’t know what moviemaking is going to look like in the next few years. I do think this will probably be the year that it changes and that maybe a woman gets nominated. Not that no woman has been nominated, but I do think a woman will probably be nominated this year. Maybe it’ll be my friend, Chloe Zhao, who made Nomadland. Or maybe it’ll be Regina King. I don’t know. I just think it’s exciting that there’s a chance that more women will be recognized this year and that it’ll be — it will start to just become the norm and not be such a story. [LAUGHS] I mean, that’s part of the bummer, right.
kara swisher
So when you think about if it’s harder to be a female actor or a female director, which one do you think it is? Because —
marielle heller
Director.
kara swisher
Director, director. It’s harder to be a director.
marielle heller
Way harde r—
kara swisher
Why?
marielle heller
— in every way. Well, first of all, it’s just been done for so much longer that there are female stars and that there are female actors on sets. That’s just — it’s, everybody knows what that looks like. I don’t know. That’s just — OK, but it is very hard to be a female actor in that, ugh, the toll on actors having to worry about their looks or their weight or their skin or whatever. That is the worst. So I feel terrible in many ways for female actors, because that is just, it’s a torture in itself.
kara swisher
You also said a lot of the characters are vapid and not three dimensional, is one of the reasons you kind of moved along.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
How does that change? Did you face that when you were doing acting roles, finding acting roles, or discrimination?
marielle heller
Yeah, I found it — no, I just found it really frustrating that there weren’t juicy, real roles. Everybody would say to me — even when I was like 23, people would be like, oh man, when you’re 60, you’re going to get to play like Lady M. Then you’re going to have some real Caryl Churchill roles. You’re going to get some real meaty roles, but you’ve got to wait till you’re 60.
kara swisher
[LAUGHS]
marielle heller
I was like, I don’t want to wait till I’m 60 to have a good role that feels actually meaty. So in that way, I do think it is — it’s really hard to be a female actor. But being a female director, I think, just comes with so many landmines that you can’t quite anticipate.
kara swisher
When you’re paid for directing compared to male counterparts — and I’ll give an example. Hollywood Reporter did some number crunching three years ago, and Ridley Scott —
marielle heller
Ooh.
kara swisher
— reportedly earned $10 to $12 million for “Alien Covenant“. Patty Jenkins, who directed “Wonder Woman“, which was very good, got a million dollars. Now she’s going to make $8 million for the sequel —
marielle heller
Good for her.
kara swisher
— “Wonder Woman 1984“, but making her the highest paid female director, which isn’t even close to Ridley Scott. How do you deal with that in Hollywood?
marielle heller
I deal with it really easily, because I’m married to a male director.
kara swisher
This is Jorma Taccone of Lonely Island, yeah.
marielle heller
Yeah. So every time I’ve gotten a quote, I’ve gone back to Jorma, been like, what did you get offered for this size movie? And then I got to my agents, and I go, Jorma was offered this for blah, blah, blah. So why am I not being offered this for blah blah blah.
kara swisher
Yeah.
marielle heller
And it’s like I have my own little —
kara swisher
Checking, checking.
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
Does it work?
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
What do they do? Oh, uh, oops.
marielle heller
I mean, luckily my agents are on my side about that, and they’re like, great. Then we’ll go back with that. It’s worked across the board, where it’s given me the confidence to ask for certain things that I wouldn’t ask for otherwise, because —
kara swisher
Can you tell me, what is the disparity when that happens, when you bring back his salary compared to yours?
marielle heller
Probably like 30% or 40%. There’s some legal thing where we’re not allowed to have quotes anymore, but for a long time directors, the way it worked was you were always working toward a quote. So somebody would go, oh, their quote is blah, blah, blah. They work for this much money, right.
kara swisher
A million bucks. Just make it up.
marielle heller
Right. This is your quote. Once you’ve been paid something, that’s what you get paid. And so you’re always trying to build up to that. You know, I’m sure Ridley Scott built up his quote over many years to get to that point.
kara swisher
But if women are getting 30% to 40% less —
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
— how do they rationalize that?
marielle heller
That’s like putting myself into the head of — I think anybody is going to try to pay people less money. That’s just always going to be the thing. I do think there’s a weird stigma where people probably think that female directors are a risk. Or that’s what I’ve heard people say, which, I mean, it makes me insane. But —
kara swisher
For what reason have you heard?
marielle heller
I think people just feel like they watch a male director make one little indie that comes out of Sundance, and they go like, I see potential in that kid.
kara swisher
[LAUGHS]
marielle heller
And then they watch a female director come out of Sundance and make one little indie, and they go, that was excellent.
kara swisher
Uh-huh.
marielle heller
I’ll wait to see her next movie, and then I’ll decide if she should get another job and if she’s got — if that was a one off or if it was staying power.
kara swisher
Will you leverage your newfound on screen star power to get new projects greenlit?
marielle heller
[LAUGHS]
kara swisher
Do you think, I’m Alma, you know.
marielle heller
No, no. I don’t know —
kara swisher
You don’t know how popular “The Queen’s Gambit” is, do you? Are you aware?
marielle heller
— crazy popular. Everybody in my life has reached out to me.
kara swisher
— crazy popular. I recommended it, and I’ve got hundreds of thank you’s for it.
marielle heller
I sort of really didn’t expect it. No offense to Scott or the show. But a show about chess and —
kara swisher
It’s beautiful. It’s charming. It’s entertaining.
marielle heller
It’s so beautiful —
kara swisher
It’s life-affirming.
marielle heller
— but I did not think it was going to be the hottest show that’s ever happened. I mean it’s really, really wild.
kara swisher
It’s delightful, is what it is. And that’s why.
marielle heller
I know. I think Scott just did such a beautiful job. And I can brag about the show because I didn’t direct it, because I don’t feel that type of ownership over it. I can just be like, isn’t it so good? [LAUGHS]
kara swisher
So you’re not going to use that. You don’t think it’ll —
marielle heller
Use it to leverage for power?
kara swisher
Why not?
marielle heller
No, but I do think, in some weird way, the game that we’ve talked about of Hollywood, it will be helpful that people have seen my face and I exist in the world. As a director, nobody knew what I’d looked like or — there’s no, like, kind of persona there. And I was really nervous when I took on the role, where I didn’t want it to make it that now that I did this acting role, it was going to make people think I wasn’t a serious director or not like — I just didn’t want it to muddy that. That was my biggest fear.
kara swisher
So your success — you don’t want your success to get in the way of your success, essentially?
marielle heller
Sort of. I don’t want my success to get in the way of my power.
kara swisher
I see. Ah.
marielle heller
Yeah. I don’t want anybody to think of me as less of a serious director because I took on this role as an actor.
kara swisher
Let me ask you about a thing you just did and what you’re working on next. You just directed Heidi Schreck’s “What the Constitution Means to Me“. It was a stage play. It’s a stage play about the Constitution, and it’s wonderful. It’s one of my favorite —
marielle heller
It’s not even really just about the Constitution.
kara swisher
No —
marielle heller
It’s really about Heidi’s life and family.
kara swisher
Exactly. About her life, reading, making speeches about the Constitution. It’s wonderful. So whenever you saw her show, which I think had 180 some performances —
marielle heller
Yeah.
kara swisher
— you filmed it during the Kavanaugh hearings. Is that right?
marielle heller
We didn’t film it during the Kavanaugh hearings, but Heidi talked a lot about what it felt like to perform during the Kavanaugh hearings.
kara swisher
That’s when I saw it, yeah.
marielle heller
We filmed it in its last week in Broadway, last week on Broadway last August. My goal with helping Heidi to bring that piece to a larger audience was that I wanted it to come out before the election and that I felt like it was such an important — you know, it makes you look in a very deep, nuanced way at our Constitution, not from just a knee jerk kind of click baity way, but in a real deep way, thoughtful way. And we could not have anticipated that it was going to come out during the Amy Coney Barrett hearings and that Ruth Bader Ginsburg would have died. It was awful and made it more poignant in some weird way. And it came out in the moment I think it needed to come out.
kara swisher
How has Hollywood changed in the last four years of Trump, or entertainment?
marielle heller
I’m not sure. But I don’t know that I would have felt like I needed to make a movie about Mr. Rogers during an Obama presidency, for example. There was something about the period of time that we’ve been in, the dark period of time that we’ve been in, where I thought, god, to have an example of masculine strength that comes from empathy and kindness and emotion instead of brute, bullish force, it just felt so important to me to see a hero, a masculine hero who, their heroic power comes in their innate sensitivity. That just seemed really important to me.
kara swisher
So wait, if you said you could only make Mr. Rogers’ Neighborhood in the Trump era and “Diary of a Teenage Girl” in the Obama era, what can you make now? What is your feeling of the era now?
marielle heller
I don’t know. That’s my question right now. I mean, obviously, I think “Queen’s Gambit” shows you never know what’s going to feel somehow like the most timely thing. Like a ‘60s period drama about chess somehow, in the middle of a Trump— in the middle of an election cycle, feels like the most —
kara swisher
— it’s smart.
marielle heller
— poignant thing. Yeah, but who — I mean —
kara swisher
People are sick of stupid.
marielle heller
I agree with that. I think — I don’t think I’ll ever make anything that — even though I said in that quote, sometimes we need pure escapism, I don’t think that’s going to be the movie I make. That’s not something I’m really interested in. I —
kara swisher
So no superhero movies for you?
marielle heller
I don’t think so. It would have to be substantive. But you know, look, I’m friends with Ryan Coogler. I thought he did something with Black Panther that was incredible. So you can’t — never say never. It can be done well, but it has to be done well.
kara swisher
So your next project is called “Five Women“. It’s based on a “This American Life” episode about a serial sexual harasser in the workplace. Why did you choose this project?
marielle heller
It’s a very complex — in the same way that I loved Alma and I love really complex character studies, it is — that one line makes you think it’s about one thing, but it’s a much more complex study about workplace harassment, a very mundane, very run of the mill, not some big fancy famous person harassing somebody, but a much more just like regular workplace harassment scenario, and different women, different characters, how they respond, how their history, how what they’ve been taught to expect from men, what they’ve been taught to expect from themselves, how it affects how they respond in that moment. And so we’ve been working on that and writing the scripts for it. And when the world feels safe and I don’t have to abandon my children, I will make that.
kara swisher
But you will not make movies until you can have sets that are open and not bubble.
marielle heller
Probably not.
kara swisher
No way. When everyone else is bingeing on “Queen’s Gambit“, what are you bingeing on, speaking of your family?
marielle heller
Well, I’m loving the new season of “The Crown“.
kara swisher
Yes.
marielle heller
It’s just —
kara swisher
Diana.
marielle heller
It was a total shock to me that it came out. It felt like a present. It just arrived. I was like, oh my gosh, the new season of “The Crown” is here? This is amazing.
kara swisher
Yeah.
marielle heller
I was so thrilled about that.
kara swisher
Just so you know, it’s now number one on Netflix. It’s really good, though.
marielle heller
God damn it. No, I’m just kidding.
kara swisher
[LAUGHS] Let me ask you in closing, the punk who called you ma’am, any idea where he is now? I shouldn’t call him a punk. The young actor who called you ma’am.
marielle heller
I think he might have just been Southern and it was more of a thing of actually thinking that, but, man, it bothered me. I don’t know where he is now. I’m sure he’s having a great career.
kara swisher
Yeah.
marielle heller
Yeah. It was just funny, I just couldn’t stand it.
kara swisher
Under any circumstances, do you want to be called ma’am?
marielle heller
No.
kara swisher
Alma might.
marielle heller
Oh, Alma would love to be called ma’am, as long as it wasn’t by a young man who was attractive. I don’t. No. I answer to dude way more than ma’am.
kara swisher
Marielle, thank you so much, on that note. I really appreciate your time. I want you to get back to your kids. I know how you feel. And congratulations on your baby and everything.
marielle heller
Thank you so much. You, too. [MUSIC PLAYING]
kara swisher[THEME MUSIC] (SINGING) When you walk in the room, do you have sway?
kara swisher
I’m Kara Swisher, and you’re listening to “Sway.” I’ve been watching a lot of TV lately. And one show I can’t stop binging is “The Karate Kid” reboot, “Cobra Kai.”
archived recording Are you sure you’re ready? Because once you go down this path, there’s no turning back.
kara swisher
I got hooked on it last year, as did millions of households when the show moved from YouTube to Netflix.
archived recording And when the time is right, you’ll strike back.
kara swisher
It’s nostalgic, but it’s also surprising. In it, Ralph Macchio is back, playing the role of the Karate Kid, Daniel LaRusso. And his rival, Johnny Lawrence of the infamous Cobra Kai dojo, is once again played by William AKA Billy Zabka. But unlike the original films, we get to see things from Johnny’s point of view. And Daniel LaRusso? There’s another side of him, too. The bully gets bullied, and the nice guy is sometimes the villain. The line between evil and good is really blurry now. As I’m watching “Cobra Kai,” I kept asking myself, did I not see the real story before? Or maybe I’ve just gained more insight with age. I couldn’t figure out which one it was, so I had no choice but to call the OG Karate Kid himself, Ralph Macchio. OK, fine. I just wanted an excuse to talk to him. I’m so excited to do this. I love the series. I think it’s wonderful. And obviously, I love the original movies. Were you surprised that it reemerged this way?
ralph macchio
This is a lame response, which is yes and no. The reason I say that, I am not surprised because I’ve walked in these shoes for 30 something years, 36 years, maybe more than that now. I haven’t done the recent math. But it has never gone away for me certainly, being so well associated to that character. And no matter where I am in the world or on the planet, there is an affinity for that character and that film. I always believed if you brought them to the well, they would drink the water, you know? It’s become such a big part of pop culture. So the kids today are backing themselves into the movie franchise through the show.
kara swisher
Yeah, they are. My kids were like, does this come from a movie? And I was like, yeah.
ralph macchio
Right. So a great amount of credit goes to Jon, Josh, and Hayden, our creators, who sort of came into — this is the guys who wrote “The Hot Tub Time Machine” and “Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle.”
kara swisher
Mm-hmm, right. I heard that a lot of people sent you scripts to follow up on the “Karate Kid” story. You said no to most of them, correct?
ralph macchio
Right, they were pitches. I mean, some of them were the elevator pitch. Travolta just got — look what happened with “Pulp Fiction” to him. You should go back and do the David Lynch version of Daniel LaRusso. So I was like, OK, what is that?
kara swisher
That’s frightening.
ralph macchio
Exactly.
kara swisher
Yeah.
ralph macchio
Exactly. Or my favorite, which was pitched to John Avildsen, the director of “The Karate Kid” film. Someone said, “You know, I’ve always thought, what if Rocky Balboa had a kid, and Daniel LaRusso had a kid, and they met between Philadelphia and Newark and started this whole” and it’s kind of like, your reaction is exactly ours.
kara swisher
Wow.
ralph macchio
And we all just laughed, and that will never work.
kara swisher
How did you feel when you were hearing these, like yourself?
ralph macchio
I guess, I was at that place — this was probably mid late ‘90s, when things had really — outside of “My Cousin Vinny” at that time, they were starting to slow down for me. I was probably more, OK, things have gotten a little tougher, thinner, leaner. I need to try to shift into a different direction as opposed to, O.K. let’s go do that again.
kara swisher
Yeah, yeah. And a lot of actors do shift into that or live in those roles. How difficult is that to break out of a role when you’re an actor with such an iconic character?
ralph macchio
Yeah, it’s challenging certainly. And you’re definitely swimming upstream. The current is strong. Listen, there is a — call it fairy dust, call it whatever it is that’s sprinkled upon this “Karate Kid” universe that it is blessed in some way. And I allude to this story when William Zabka for the first time and I stepped on the stage together. We hadn’t been on camera together since 1980 whatever. And for the most part, any time we’re on screen together, he was kicking my ass, and I was taking a beating. There wasn’t a lot of sitting down at the coffee shop, having a conversation. And we instantly had this chemistry. This life had gone by — a little more wrinkles, a little less hair, but there was a sort of magic between us that I don’t even think we had back in the day. And I think some of that had to do with sharing a unique connection of being connected to this movie, this entity, that we all share from a different perspective. That is something that doesn’t happen very often.
kara swisher
No, you have a really amazing rapport you almost didn’t even have in the movie.
ralph macchio
Right, not at all.
kara swisher
And how old were you both then?
ralph macchio
21 for me. I turned 22, making — yeah, my birthday was on when I was shooting “Karate Kid.” And he was 18.
kara swisher
Right. So it first launched YouTube in 2018, and then it was acquired by Netflix. And you and he are both executive producers. What did you think when they came to you with the YouTube prospect?
ralph macchio
The project came to me — Jon, Josh, and Hayden came to me. I was the last one to the party because I was the most — I guess I was the most resistant. And listen, they were pitching a show called “Cobra Kai” that came in through the eyes of Johnny Lawrence. They probably said, OK, how are we going to sell him on this? They got Billy on board, and then they came in to pitch it to me. It took a couple of rounds, but I just felt now’s the time. So then we put it all together, and the deals got done, and everyone’s target was Netflix. And when the pitches came in — Sony put them together — it was Amazon, it was Hulu, it was HBO, even though they were never going to buy this show. It was cool they wanted to hear it. And then there was Facebook, which was just starting to look at originals, believe it or not.
kara swisher
Oh, that’s right, Facebook. Who did you meet with there? Did you go —
ralph macchio
We met with Mina Lefevre. And we literally, when we walked into her office, it was just boxes. She said, I got here Tuesday. This is the first thing I’m hearing.
kara swisher
Yeah. [LAUGHS] I forgot about Facebook originals, yeah.
ralph macchio
Yeah, and it was kind of fun. But our first pitch was YouTube, and it was put there kind of as our warm-up. And it was a well-orchestrated pitch. We rehearsed it. It had a visual sizzle reel, and Billy and I would interject in between. As the guys were talking through the pilot, we would add a line here —
kara swisher
So it was the two of you, you and Billy and —
ralph macchio
Me, Billy, and the three creators.
kara swisher
Three creators, yeah.
ralph macchio
And Susanne Daniels took over for YouTube Originals and YouTube Red at the time, which then changed to YouTube Premium. Her model, she was there to compete with Netflix. And they had the advertising budgets and —
kara swisher
And Google has a lot of money, apparently.
ralph macchio
Google has a lot of money, not that they gave it to YouTube.
kara swisher
Yeah.
ralph macchio
Yeah, so the pitch went incredible, to the point that Susanne and company were basically pitching us why we have to be there. The only thing they didn’t do is hold on to our ankles as we were walking out. Because what she saw there is this is the tent pole, this is the one I need —
kara swisher
Which they need. Which all these streaming services need.
ralph macchio
Yeah, you need that one. The “House of Cards” for Netflix, if you will, right? We pitched at Netflix finally. That went great as well, and Ted Sarandos was in the room for the first half of it, but had to jump out to a meeting, so we were important.
kara swisher
The top people. No, Ted now is running Netflix, for people who don’t know.
ralph macchio
Yes, right. So, anyway, to bring this in for a landing, at the end of the day during the pitch, YouTube just said here, make them. And Netflix wanted to, at that point, develop. They wanted to see something. YouTube did not see a written word.
kara swisher
Just, let’s go for it. Let’s go for it.
ralph macchio
Yeah, and the low expectations, once we did our upfronts or whatever it was, Billy and I appeared with Susanne, saying, “It’s going to be the rivalry of the ages.” And then, you start hearing, “Oh my God, I love this idea. It’s going to be the worst. It’s going to be like a bad cavity that I can’t enjoy the pain, but I hate it at the same time. It’s going to be terrible.” And those low expectations did not hurt us.
kara swisher
Thank goodness you didn’t go to Quibi.
ralph macchio
I know. It’s funny you mention, because I was at a dinner with a friend, and someone was working for Peacock, getting that started. And —
kara swisher
Yeah, that’s NBC’s.
ralph macchio
—when he heard about “Cobra Kai” and it was the first time I sort of let out information that it might not be going back to YouTube, his thing was like, well, you should go to Quibi. It’s perfect. I said, no, this is like a global — and he shall remain nameless.
kara swisher
So, Netflix. So how did it get over? So you were doing two seasons —
ralph macchio
Yeah, we did two seasons. It did very well on YouTube. The fun part of YouTube was you could watch the numbers. Like, the show launches, and you’re watching 2 million, 2.5 million, because you’re watching those views. The downside is teaching people how to get YouTube Premium and not have to hook up your computer to a toaster and make sure the kitchen light is on. Otherwise, it won’t come through. It felt almost like that. It was like a hamster on a conveyor belt. Then, let’s get it going. And certain people of certain ages had no idea how to even get it.
kara swisher
Right, and the target audience might not, right?
ralph macchio
Yes, and that was a problem. So the concept was, wow, could you imagine if this was on a platform that was easier to reach for the right demographic? And then, when we got to season — we finished shooting season three, which you saw —
kara swisher
For YouTube.
ralph macchio
For YouTube, oh, yes. And I was feeling this writing on the wall, shooting season three. It just got very quiet from YouTube. It just was — there was a disconnect. It felt like there was something going on. So when I got the call a couple of weeks after I got back from Okinawa — because we got to shoot a few scenes there, I was really proud of that — Susanne called basically as close to as an executive can be in tears, saying — I’m paraphrasing because I was not on the call, but it’s almost that embarrassing call of saying any other place, this would be picked up, but we’re not going to continue with the show.
kara swisher
Yeah, one of the issues is Google itself was not as committed.
ralph macchio
No, not at all. We felt that from day one. And so, I have nothing but great things to say about Susanne, and certainly Google and YouTube for saying go make it. And they can make a lot more watching Will Smith jump out of a helicopter on his 50th birthday. Then they can’t make sense out of that, it seems. So then it was like we were homeless. But what we all did is we said the same thing at the same time — the creators and certainly Billy and I felt the same way — please don’t put season three out. Let us have that. Let us figure out a way. And then a pandemic drops. The good news is we had 10 episodes of content, anticipated, maybe even highly anticipated content you can argue, in our back pocket. And we did plenty of Zoom calls. And we spoke of the “Karate Kid” universe, not just “Cobra Kai” alone. My part of it was saying, OK, I’ve walked in these shoes in every corner of the world and in every language. And it’s that same —
kara swisher
” Everybody knows it.
ralph macchio
And they know it.
kara swisher
Yeah, because Netflix is a global company in a way other streaming services are not.
ralph macchio
Big time. I mean, that’s a lot of what they wanted to talk about.
kara swisher
Right. Were you surprised how popular quickly — because it suddenly came to my attention, to a lot of people’s attention, once it was on Netflix. It made a big difference.
ralph macchio
Yes, it’s unbelievable. It was just insane. It just blew up instantly. It was end of August.
kara swisher
Because of the pandemic, people have time to watch it, too.
ralph macchio
Yes, that’s certainly — I think maybe in this time in the world, a big, fat, nostalgic embrace that is kind of a comfort food, like the best cheeseburger you had at 12 years old that they no longer make, but somehow, you get to taste it again. People are looking for that warm and fuzzy when we’re not dealing with warm and fuzzy when we step out of the house.
kara swisher
Let me ask you. I’m going to push back a little bit on the comfort food. I think it’s a very dark show and interesting and complex, much more so —
ralph macchio
Well, yes.
kara swisher
— It could have been super cheesy. You could easily have slid by on the ‘80s elements of “Cobra Kai,” like, oh, look at the clothes. And then, what you do in the show, which for those who haven’t watched “The Karate Kid,” is there’s so many references that you just flip off quickly. You don’t even take a minute. You do them, and you do them over and over again, which is even funnier. You know what I mean? Like, wax on, wax off, or the one with the spaghetti and the white coat.
ralph macchio
Oh, yeah, the white jacket. What, you think I want that on?
kara swisher
Yeah, you call so much attention to it, you can’t miss it even. Some of your sets are kind of cheesy a little bit. It’s nothing as fancy.
ralph macchio
That budget life —
kara swisher
I get that, but I like it. It works.
ralph macchio
It does. I’ve heard that a few times.
kara swisher
Like, you have one box of cereal versus —
ralph macchio
Yes.
kara swisher
But it works. It works for some reason. So there’s a lot of cheesy moments that make fun of the original movie, and the tropes of that era, and things like that. But it actually isn’t a spoof. And that’s where I think a lot of these ‘80s things go wrong, is that it makes fun of what people loved in the first place. That’s one. And the second one is that it’s about bullying. And we were in a bullying era. You know what I mean? And I know it sounds crazy to make the link between that and what happened at the Capitol, but those people who were running mad at the Capitol reminds you of the “Cobra Kai” people. You know what I mean?
ralph macchio
Yeah, 100%.
kara swisher
It’s really interesting. And it definitely goes into darker places in that you yourself, who’s supposed to be the good guy, and Billy, who is supposed to be the bad guy — it’s complex. You’re not so good.
ralph macchio
Very much so.
kara swisher
And he’s wonderful, by the way, as an actor.
ralph macchio
Right, he’s so fantastic. Listen, if he doesn’t deliver that performance, they could write it as brilliantly as you want, the show does not continue. And it’s the most collaborative art form in the world. But Billy’s work is so wonderful and complex and nuanced. “The Karate Kid” is clearly a black-and-white piece of storytelling. My good over evil and all that stuff. I mean, and Miyagi good, Kreese bad. “Cobra Kai” dives into those gray areas, where your allegiance episode to episode can change. And now, at this point of season three, we now both recognize the good and bad in both these guys and are rooting for both, with their two separate types of shortcomings and problems and demons. And that’s a big credit to our writers and creators in seeing the show. And “bullying” was the first word out of Hayden Schlossberg’s mouth. And he said this theme is going to resonate throughout this concept, just like it resonated throughout the concept of “The Karate Kid,” although it will be different in how it’s changed over time. It’s not, give me your lunch money, I’m going to stuff you in a locker. Technology has changed the game entirely. And bullying, being able to rally the troops, you mentioned the situation in Washington, on how the internet can reach the world in a nanosecond, and with whatever messaging you choose to put out there, if someone’s listening, you can stir up a case.
kara swisher
And also, what you were talking about is Johnny’s character is bullied. You start to see the back stories that is a little more complex of each, including your character, who is a bully in part of it. You make some very questionable choices, and there’s a lot of gray areas in your character, for example.
ralph macchio
Right, I think for LaRusso, he was always — and this was a give and take, a little bit of a struggle early on with the writers on trying to find, O.K., how do we believably make him an antagonist at times with good intentions, right?
kara swisher
Well, you’re still living in your victory when you’re an adult. It’s not comical. It’s kind of, not pathetic, but someone who had one great moment.
ralph macchio
Right, exactly. He kicked the field goal that won the Texas high school thing, and he’s a celebrity every time he goes to Dallas or Austin. But LaRusso, the character, was always knee-jerk, act first, think later, a little cocky, even though he had little to back it up. That was sort of my East Coast bravado that I brought to the role. Even the first time I read it for Avildsen, I had a little bit of that cockiness. And so, we just sort of like amplified that. He got successful. I mean, it was written more in a way than I think I would have written it. But I understood from the entertainment value of coming in through the eyes of Johnny Lawrence, how important it was that this guy would haunt him everywhere he turned. We look at when Johnny Lawrence comes to the dealership —
archived recording (anoush) Wait, is this the karate guy? The guy from the tournament? archived recording (louie larusso, jr.) Oh, this is the guy whose ass you kicked. archived recording (daniel larusso) It was a really close match, but if you want to get technical, I kicked his face. Just busting your chops. archived recording (johnny lawrence) It was an illegal kick.
ralph macchio
What we don’t see in that scene and what we don’t look at in that scene where he says that’s water under the bridge. We don’t hear that. We hear, I kicked his face.
kara swisher
It’s belittling of him. You were belittling him quite a bit. Has playing the new role in this new context changed your understanding of the character?
ralph macchio
I went back and watched season one. Season one certainly is when LaRusso looks most antagonistic because it’s setting up the Johnny Lawrence story and getting —
kara swisher
Yeah, you’re in the meeting, trying to shut him down.
ralph macchio
Yeah, exactly.
archived recording (daniel larusso) Give me a break. archived recording (sue) Daniel, show a little respect. archived recording (daniel larusso) Respect? Are you kidding me, Sue? You don’t know the history here. John Kreese and Cobra Kai were the embodiment of everything this tournament stands against. And this guy? Johnny Lawrence? He was his star pupil. He’s the worst of them all. We would be dishonoring the entire sport by reinstating Cobra Kai. Come on.
ralph macchio
When we shot that scene, I never knew visually that they were going to blur out my dialogue and just focus on him and his mind. And it made sense. You had to make a choice who were you following in this scene. But it’s interesting, I look back, and watching the film, the original film, you would see those moments that were the seeds that would breed this kind of quality in this person. Also, Jon, Josh, and Hayden are big fans of “The Karate Kid Part III.” I am not, and it has nothing against the actors involved.
kara swisher
That’s the one that John Kreese’s friend comes, is that right?
ralph macchio
Yes —
kara swisher
I do, too.
ralph macchio
Terry Silver.
kara swisher
Why don’t you love it? Why don’t you like it?
ralph macchio
I just felt for the LaRusso character. He never went forward. It felt like we were redoing the first movie in a cartoon kind of sense without —
kara swisher
Oh, you’re wrong.
ralph macchio
— the heart and soul.
kara swisher
It’s actually good. You go dark. Daniel LaRusso goes dark.
ralph macchio
Yeah, no, that’s the good part. That’s the good part.
kara swisher
Right, and you use it in this new series. You use that with your daughter.
ralph macchio
Yes, very much so. So it’s interesting to me how, when I talk about “The Karate Kid,” I’m always talking about the original film and the second movie, where, in actuality, “Cobra Kai,” the last thing that happened that we know is all the events of “Karate Kid Part III.” So now I’m fully embracing of that. And Jon, Josh, and Hayden —
kara swisher
You have to embrace it.
ralph macchio
Yeah. Oh, yeah, no.
kara swisher
I’m friends with Jennifer Beals, and she first didn’t embrace “Flashdance,” and I forced her. I’m like, you have to understand how important that was to so many people. It’s not about you. It’s not —
ralph macchio
But see, you’re not talking about “Flashdance 3.”
kara swisher
No, you’re right. Fair point.
ralph macchio
So it’s a big difference.
kara swisher
It was a very good movie. You’re wrong.
ralph macchio
Yeah, that’s awesome.
kara swisher
I suspect “Flashdance 3” would not have been a good movie. Maybe “Flashdance 2.” I don’t know. Did they make that? But it’s hard to embrace those characters that are iconic for actors like that. Did you mind doing that? Because you were the hero, and you’re not precisely the hero. You moved aside to let Johnny Lawrence become a hero, too, which was interesting. In the other one, you were the hero. That was it.
ralph macchio
Yeah, no, no one was not rooting for Daniel LaRusso in 1984. You could talk about the illegal kick —
kara swisher
This is the kick at the end, the crane kick.
ralph macchio
Yes, the crane kick.
kara swisher
Which is whether it’s illegal or not.
ralph macchio
Right, and the theories behind it and then how the internet started that conversation, which only makes this movie more relevant. I never looked at it. I mean, certainly, I would battle with the writers at times with — it’s so easy for you guys to write the rich dick line. And I’ll negotiate that out, and I’ll fight. I’ll lose most of them because they —
kara swisher
But what did you want to keep? What did you want to keep?
ralph macchio
He is a good guy and a good father.
kara swisher
Right, good husband.
ralph macchio
And a good husband and tries to follow the knowledge and lessons and wisdom that he gained from his human Yoda, who is no longer there. And always pays respect forward to Miyagi and what he — that was always important to me in this show. And it is woven throughout. Day one, I said I can’t even consider this unless the Miyagi character and the now void in LaRusso’s life is something that is addressed throughout the series, because we’re not here without that performance.
kara swisher
So I want to talk a little bit about the element of politics below the surface. I wonder about Johnny’s political affiliations, about yours. One of the things that was surprising is a lot of comments that he makes are just awful, like calling Miguel an “illegal.” They drop them in all the time. And there is politics in it.
ralph macchio
Oh my god, the absolute joy I get out of watching Johnny Lawrence say everything we’re not supposed to say, it’s very refreshing. It comes up innocent because he is just locked in that time period. I think across the board, people love that. I think there might be some people that would be offended by it. But I don’t see it that way. I see it as —
kara swisher
No, because you paint it as wrong, but he says it anyway.
ralph macchio
Yeah, he says it anyway.
kara swisher
Right, there’s no feeling as if, yeah, good job, buddy, for saying that.
ralph macchio
Yeah, exactly. No, no. But as far as from a political standpoint and connecting that, yeah, listen, I just read something yesterday. It was an article about Trump in the White House, Biden, Cobra Kai, Miyagi-Do, the different — you can draw those sort of parallels in a way. I mean, I think where Johnny Lawrence — people ask us, people ask Billy and I, what would Johnny Lawrence do during the pandemic? Would he wear a mask? Would he vote for Trump? Where does Daniel LaRusso stand this way? We tap dance around those, for the most part. But I think he alluded to the fact that Johnny would rip the mask off and say just fight this with your two hands. Whereas LaRusso would certainly be having everybody washing his hands in Miyagi holy water before he started the kata. But LaRusso probably straddles — he’s probably, I would say —
kara swisher
Because he’s a businessman.
ralph macchio
He’s a businessman.
kara swisher
He likes tax cuts.
ralph macchio
And he knows he’s going to get creamed in taxes. So I think he leans left, but straddles a little closer to the middle.
kara swisher
All right, so one of the other things is a pretty overt exploration of gender roles in “Cobra Kai,” which I think is great. But one of the things is more girls are doing karate. The questions of hypermasculinity are in there, of toxic masculinity, essentially. John Kreese is obviously the walking, talking —
ralph macchio
Right.
kara swisher
By the way, fantastic.
ralph macchio
He does a great job.
kara swisher
Especially his back story is great, too.
ralph macchio
Yeah, I really enjoyed that in season three.
kara swisher
Yeah. How do you look at that idea? Because the girls are quite active in karate in this case. And I’m not talking about “The Next Karate Kid,” that one because I know they were doing that just to show, look, a girl can kick, too. But do they think about that a lot? Or do you think about that? Because you’re training your daughter in this case.
ralph macchio
Yes, we’ve always spoken about that and trying to shine a light on the — that’s why LaRusso had a daughter, and it was important that she remembers Miyagi, and it’s part of her upbringing. And I think that’s important, that sort of empowerment. And there is a lot of, you know, I’ve gotten a handful of questions with the toxic masculinity, with, does it shine a light on that kind of violence?
kara swisher
Because it’s quite violent. The show is —
ralph macchio
Yeah, and it is quite violent, more violent than I was expecting.
kara swisher
Me, too.
ralph macchio
And I think that some of it, I feel — I think there might be a little bit of a shift not away from it, but a little bit more — less felonies with no consequences.
kara swisher
Yeah, I know. I was sort of like, where’s the police? These windows keep breaking. I’ve never broken a window.
ralph macchio
It’s like where you spoke about, OK, we’ve had our big double live album set. And now it’s time to do the cool acoustic album and go back into — so that’s what, hopefully, going forward —
kara swisher
No more window breaking or home invasions. The home invasion, I was like, wow, you’d go to jail for that one. [MUSIC PLAYING] We’ll be back in a minute. If you like this interview and want to hear others, hit Subscribe. You’ll be able to catch up on Sway episodes you may have missed, like my conversation with actor Bryan Cranston. And you’ll get new ones delivered directly to you. More with Ralph Macchio after the break. As you mentioned, there’s a lot of references to Mr. Miyagi in the show. Pat Morita, who played him, sadly passed away in 2005. You really keep Mr. Miyagi in the story. And talk a little bit about that in keeping him there, because he never leaves this show ever.
ralph macchio
Yeah, no, that was — I wouldn’t use the mandate, but that was a need of mine upon first hearing the pitch for me to come on board to weave Miyagi’s character throughout.
kara swisher
You were personally close to him.
ralph macchio
Yes, I mean, personally close? I would say, no, not as far as him involved in my personal life and me involved in his. I was personally close to him in the sense of as time and years went on, the significance and relevance of our screen partnership around the world became so clear to me.
archived recording (daniel larusso) I just don’t know if I know enough karate. archived recording (mr. miyagi) Feeling correct. archived recording (daniel larusso) You sure know how to make a guy feel confident. archived recording^ (mr. miyagi) Daniel-san, you trust quality what you know, not quantity.
ralph macchio
It was truly the definition of magic when we did those scenes. There was a give and take. It was like the perfect tango and without effort. It was effortless. That’s the word. I didn’t know how much richness it had. I just knew it was easy to do. So, therein lies the kind of truth for me. There was something otherworldly or whatever you want to call it.
kara swisher
In a weird way, it’s transferred to Johnny, which is interesting, the significant relation — because each of those movies were about a significant relationship that changes their life.
ralph macchio
It’s all about fatherhood. It’s all about overcoming obstacles, bullying. There’s single parents. LaRusso with his mom, he lost his dad. Miyagi was a surrogate father. You have Johnny, estranged son, trying to help Miguel and can’t mend the relationship with his own kid. Like you said early on in this discussion, that’s what makes this deeper than just comfort food. But it still is, in my opinion, because we’re looking for love, we’re looking to belong, we’re looking for all those things. And there is a comfort in that when you can relate to what the characters are going through.
kara swisher
Now you brought back almost all the characters. I thought the scenes with Johnny and his group were surprising because they were sort of just assholes in the movie, right? And they have, actually, depth. Pretty much everyone’s very — sometimes you don’t expect some people who have throwaway roles.
ralph macchio
No, everyone brings the A game. They all bring the A game.
kara swisher
Yeah, but you also focus a lot on these kids, too, the kids having an equal role. And that has worked rather well, is that you have a relationship with these kids now. The viewer has a relationship with the kids.
ralph macchio
Probably the first meeting, I said, when they were pitching Miguel and Samantha and Robbie, I said, where are we going to — you need great kids. We’re going to run out of gas with these two geezers — well, not quite — these two middle-aged guys discussing the same kick from 1984.
kara swisher
Have you been keeping up with karate moves all these years?
ralph macchio
I have done less of it, and I’m doing more of it. And after this, I have a quick photo shoot, and then I’m going into training because I want to be better each season. It’s tougher to do. Billy kept it up more than I did. Billy’s an athlete, and he looks like an athlete. So we’re blessed to have him. I’m hanging in there. It was easier when I was 22 than 59, let me tell you.
kara swisher
Yeah, so when you think about your career, thinking about it being defined by this role, you were in a whole bunch of other things. You were terrific. I just saw “My Cousin Vinny” the other day. I can’t believe you were in “Eight is Enough,” which was kind of interesting.
ralph macchio
That was nine was too many, thank you.
kara swisher
Yes, nine was too many. When you think about your career going forward and doing this, that this is a really high quality version of your biggest hit. You’ve come back. No one is mad at the Rolling Stones for doing a great job with their old hits, too. How do you look at your career? How do you think about it now from this moment forward?
ralph macchio
What’s next right now is to let this joy ride last as long as it works and is organic, because it has really been wonderfully rewarding from the aspect of doing the show, but also, just keeping this legacy alive in a positive way. And I think part of what I’ve been able to do successfully is the disappearing into that role was where Ralph disappeared into LaRusso, where you couldn’t tell where Ralph ended and LaRusso began. And that I believe is an achievement as well, as opposed to, O.K., I’m going to put on a beard, shave my head, and no one’s going to know who I am, and I’m going to use this accent. But a little of both would be fun to explore.
kara swisher
Right, right. Well, one of the things is, there’s no way to escape it. It’s a worldwide phenomenal movie that everybody remembers. And you are the face of it, in some ways. And so, that’s difficult to — they can’t not look at you and see that, right? They can’t, which I think is difficult as an actor. So you’re doing season four right now of “Cobra Kai,” correct?
ralph macchio
We’re in prep, and we’re on the launch pad, although Netflix has — I have to say, they are asking me not to say when we’re starting, so.
kara swisher
That’s all right. Are you bringing back more characters? Will Hillary Swank be joining, for example?
ralph macchio
Listen, here’s the answer. Here’s the generic. Anyone who’s part of the Miyagi-verse, any character that appeared in the Miyagi-verse, which during the life of Mr. Miyagi and any of those sequels, is canon for this show. So who knows? Yes, no, maybe.
kara swisher
So when you think about talking to people today, like my kids, or I don’t know if you have kids —
ralph macchio
Yes, I do, two in their 20s, believe it or not.
kara swisher
What do you want them to get out of it, who don’t know every little bit? What do you want to get through to a different audience, the ones that don’t know Daniel LaRusso from back then? What is your goal as an actor and as an executive producer of this show?
ralph macchio
Yeah, I think there’s a few things. I want to allude to my kids quickly because that’s been something I didn’t expect. My daughter’s 28, my son is 25, I’m 32. So, well you can figure it out another time. They champion the show. They watch it with their friends. I mean, when the show drops, and my kids — it’s like Christmas morning. That, I didn’t expect. That is something personally that’s just been so spectacular to me. Something that’s such a big part of my life and has followed me for good, bad, or indifferent to this point is such a positive part of their life and something they’re proud of. I think as far as the next generation, as far as not the OG fans, I think it’s carrying the respect of the legacy of the source material, meaning “The Karate Kid” film and Pat Morita’s performance, our relationship, that bit of magic that I spoke about, that is brought forward to this next cast, this next generation cast. I mean, how they — whether it’s Mary Mouser or Xolo or Tanner, they asked me questions about that —
kara swisher
Yeah, these are the younger actors who play —
ralph macchio
Yeah, the younger actors, sorry. They love to hear the stories when I tell those stories. And it’s rewarding to — it’s nice to see that knowledge and that legacy be passed on to the next generation, as well as Hawk coming through the door and kicking the shit out of whoever or —
kara swisher
That guy is fantastic.
ralph macchio
Yeah, Johnny Lawrence doing everything we want to be able to do, or LaRusso doing something that’s kickass. All that stuff, all the badassery is awesome because it’s entertainment. But those deeper meanings, the foundation of the heart and soul, that why we care for these characters, seeing that be handed off to the next generation is really rewarding. I would love that to continue.
kara swisher
Yeah, I think it will. I think you could have been cartoon characters. You’re not. I mean, And now I just, I remember that scene with Pat Morita crying and being drunk, and you putting him to bed.
ralph macchio
Oh, that’s as special as it gets. And the studio wanted it cut.
kara swisher
Ugh, you’re kidding.
ralph macchio
The studio wanted it cut, well, because it stopped the plot.
kara swisher
Right, there was no kicking.
ralph macchio
And the movie was over two hours, so that means less screening times. And that means less money. No, that’s a great story, too.
kara swisher
Yeah, anyway.
ralph macchio
I got a billion of them.
kara swisher
Well, we’ll tell it another time.
ralph macchio
Another time.
kara swisher
We’ll tell it another time. I thank you so much.
ralph macchio
I really enjoyed this. Thank you.
kara swisher
All right, bye.
ralph macchio
Thanks. Take care. Bye bye. [MUSIC PLAYING]
kara swisherResearchers Discover 1,600-Year-Old Multicolored Mosaic From Byzantine Age in Israel
Archaeologists carrying out excavations on a site prior to a new neighborhood development in Yavne, in Israel, recently discovered a well-preserved ancient mosaic.
The mosaic, which displays colorful geometric motifs in a black rectangular frame, was discovered by Israel Antiquities Authority researchers, led by Avishag Reiss.
The find dates back to the Byzantine period, during the Fourth to Fifth Centuries
The ancient mosaic floor discovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
An overhead view of the dig site in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Archaeologists have been carrying out large-scale excavations in Yavne, in collaboration with the Israel Land Authority, as part of the city’s development program.
The mosaic was amazingly well preserved and is suspected to have been part of a luxurious residential building in a wealthy area.
It is the first such colored mosaic floor to be found in Yavne, in an industrial area, said Elie Haddad, director of the excavation, of the Israel Antiquities Authority.
The ancient floor was found coated with a white patina (gloss or film), a the result of the find’s age, which led them to believe, initially, that the floor was a simple paving.
Detail of the impressive 1,600-year-old mosaic uncovered in Yavne. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Detail of the ancient mosaic motif. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
“At first, we did not realize that the floor is multicolored,” said Haddad in a statement. “We assumed that it was a simple white paving belonging to yet another industrial installation.
“But black patches dotted around the mosaic suggested that it was more than one color and prompted us to remove the whitish patina that had coated it for years.”
The conservation director applied a special acid to the artwork with a brush to remove the patina, and to their surprise, a colorful mosaic ornamented with geometric motifs was revealed.
Such mosaics are unusual in industrial areas, and this one could indicate the possibility of more residential remains, said Haddad.
A wide-angle shot of the dig site and surrounding areas. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
After the mosaic was documented, drawn, and photographed, Israel Antiquities Authority officials transferred it to their workshop at the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem for treatment and preservation by experts.
The Israel Antiquities Authority, in collaboration with the Yavne municipality and Israel Land Authority, intends to make the mosaic available for viewing by the public and has identified a strategic location to place it.
The Yavne municipality, which focuses on making archaeology accessible to the town’s residents, is currently planning the infrastructure for the mosaic display, which will be placed in the plaza near Yavne’s cultural center.
An aerial view of the excavation site. (Courtesy of Assaf Peretz/Israel Antiquities Authority)
Preservation and relocation for the ancient floor will be carried out using ancient technological methods and materials similar to those used in antiquity for the sake of cultural authenticity.
“I am happy that the mosaic will be displayed in a central location in the city, so that the values embodied in its heritage are preserved and made accessible to the general public,” said Diego Barkan, from the Israel Antiquities Authority, in the statement.
Yavne mayor, Zvi Gur-Ari, emphasized the importance of culture preservation in the current age for the sake of future generations.
“Archaeological preservation and awareness of the past are important values in the city of Yavne, which has a magnificent history,” he said. “Future generations should also be able to see how the city evolved throughout history.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterProgramming Alert: Shen Yun to Showcase Lost Techniques of Classic Chinese Dance in Video Premiere
Premier classical Chinese dance company Shen Yun Performing Arts will showcase lost techniques of classic Chinese dance in a video premiere at 8:00 p.m. ET on Monday, May 31.
The video can be preordered online on Shen Yun’s newly launched on-demand video streaming platform at: ShenYunCreations.com.
Founded in 2006 in New York by a group of artists originally from China, Shen Yun states that its mission is to revive 5,000 years of divinely inspired Chinese culture and share it with the world through the universal languages of music and dance.
While China has a long and rich history, much has been lost as a result of deliberate efforts by China’s communist regime to destroy it. During the Cultural Revolution in the 60s and 70s, temples were razed, books were burned, and artists, intellectuals, and members of religious institutions were imprisoned or killed in a systemic effort to destroy the traditional culture.
It is also for this reason that Shen Yun is unable to perform in China. Around the world, however, its performances have become a cultural phenomenon with performances each year in some 20 different countries and 150 cities.
At the core of Shen Yun performances is classical Chinese dance, an ancient art form with a history of thousands of years. Classical Chinese dance, martial arts, and operatic dance have similar movements and postures, also known as shen-fa in Chinese, which have likewise been passed down for millennia, according to an introduction on the Shen Yun Creations website.
The highest achievement of shen-fa is shen-dai-shou (the body leads the arms). However, no one knew how to do it or even truly understood how to apply it before Mr. D.F., the founder and artistic and creative director of Shen Yun Performing Arts, imparted this method.
“Shen-dai-shou is also a method that has been persistently sought after by all kinds of dance forms and physical performing arts,” reads the introduction. “It is a dance technique that people have been searching for since ancient times, something people have talked about but no one can do—it is the highest realm of artistic expression through physical movement. The founder, Artistic and Creative Director of Shen Yun Performing Arts, Mr. D.F., is the one who imparted this method. Shen-fa, moreover, also has the even better method of ‘kua-dai-tui’ (the hips lead the legs), which modern people have not even heard about—an entirely lost art form. Having benefited from Mr. D.F.’s personal instruction in this method, Shen Yun now presents it to the public.”
People can watch more Shen Yun dance showcase videos, Shen Yun Symphony Orchestra concerts, vocal music, dance instructional videos, concertos, and more never-before-published content on ShenYunCreations.Containers of Johnson's baby powder made by Johnson and Johnson sits on a shelf at Jack's Drug Store in San Anselmo, California, on Oct. 18, 2019. (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
Johnson & Johnson Asks High Court to Void $2 Billion Talc Verdict
WASHINGTON—Johnson & Johnson is asking for Supreme Court review of a $2 billion verdict in favor of women who claim they developed ovarian cancer from using the company’s talc products.
The case features an array of high-profile attorneys, some in unusual alliances, including former independent counsel Kenneth Starr, who is representing the women who sued Johnson & Johnson. The nation’s largest business groups are backing the company, and a justice’s father also makes an appearance because of his long association with the trade group for cosmetics and personal care products.
The court could say as soon as Tuesday whether it will get involved.
At the root, Johnson & Johnson argues that the company didn’t get a fair shake in a trial in state court in Missouri that resulted in an initial $4.7 billion verdict in favor of 22 women who used talc products and developed ovarian cancer.
A state appeals court cut more than half the money out of the verdict and eliminated two of the plaintiffs but otherwise upheld the outcome in a trial in which lawyers for both sides presented dueling expert testimony about whether the company’s talc products contain asbestos and whether asbestos-laced talc can cause ovarian cancer.
The jury found for the women on both points, after which Judge Rex M. Burlison wrote that evidence at the trial showed “particularly reprehensible conduct on the part of Defendants.”
The evidence, Burlison wrote, included that the company knew there was asbestos in products aimed at mothers and babies, knew of the potential harm and “misrepresented the safety of these products for decades.”
Nine of the women have died from ovarian cancer, lawyers for the plaintiffs said.
Johnson & Johnson denies that its talc products cause cancer and it called the verdict in the Missouri trial “at odds with decades of independent scientific evaluations confirming Johnson’s Baby Powder is safe, is not contaminated by asbestos and does not cause cancer.” The company also is the maker of one of three COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in the United States.
Health concerns about talcum powders have prompted thousands of U.S. lawsuits by women who claim asbestos in the powder caused their cancer. Talc is a mineral similar in structure to asbestos, which is known to cause cancer, and they are sometimes obtained from the same mines. The cosmetics industry in 1976 agreed to make sure its talc products do not contain detectable amounts of asbestos.
Last year, a U.S. government-led analysis of 250,000 women found no strong evidence linking baby powder with ovarian cancer in the largest analysis to look at the question, though the study’s lead author called the results “very ambiguous.”
The findings were called “overall reassuring” in an editorial published with the study in January 2020 in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study wasn’t definitive but more conclusive research probably isn’t feasible because a dwindling number of women use powder for personal hygiene, the editorial said.
A few months later, the company announced it would stop selling its iconic talc-based Johnson’s Baby Powder in the U.S. and Canada, citing declining demand driven by what it called misinformation about health concerns.
The disputed link between cancer and talc is not really a part of the high court case. Instead, the company said it should have not been forced to defend itself in one trial against claims by women from 12 states, differing backgrounds, and with varying histories of using Johnson & Johnson products containing talc.
The $1.6 billion in punitive damages is out of line and should be reduced, the company also argued in a brief that was written by Neal Katyal, a Washington lawyer who aligns with progressive causes and also represents corporate clients. Katyal, who was the acting top Supreme Court lawyer for a time in the Obama administration, declined an on-the-record interview.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and trade associations for manufacturers, insurers and the pharmaceutical industry are among the business organizations backing Johnson & Johnson’s appeal.
Tiger Joyce, president of the American Tort Reform Association, pointed to how long it took the trial judge to read the jury its instructions as an indication of how unfair the trial was to Johnson & Johnson.
“When a defendant is facing a case where it takes over five hours for the judge to read the jury instructions to the jury, you just have to ask yourself what are we doing here,” said Joyce, whose group generally backs limits on liability lawsuits.
Starr said in an interview with The Associated Press that none of Johnson & Johnson’s legal arguments is worth the court’s time. “As the jury found and as every judge to review this six-week trial record has concluded, Johnson & Johnson’s conduct over decades was reprehensible,” Starr said.
In addition to Starr, other members of the women’s legal team are former Attorney General John Ashcroft and Washington lawyers David Frederick and Tom Goldstein, frequent advocates before the Supreme Court.
Justice Brett Kavanaugh worked for Starr when he investigated the affair between President Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, which led to Clinton’s impeachment.
Another name that pops up in some documents in the case is E. Edward Kavanaugh, who was the longtime president of the Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance Association and is the justice’s father.
Kavanaugh’s group fought efforts to list talc as a carcinogen or attach warning labels to talc products. Kavanaugh is retired and the group now is called the Personal Care Products Council.
Ethicists contacted by the AP said they haven’t seen anything that would warrant the justice having to step aside from the case.
Already, one justice almost certainly won’t take part. Justice Samuel Alito reported last year that he owned $15,000 to $50,000 in Johnson & Johnson stock. Federal law prohibits judges from sitting on cases in which they have financial interest.
By Mark ShermanPresident Joe Biden speaks at a Memorial Day event at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle, Del., on May 30, 2021. (Patrick Semansky/AP Photo)
Biden Attends Memorial Day Ceremony, Pays Tribute to Fallen Service Members
President Joe Biden marked Memorial Day with a speech at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia that made reference to the U.S. soldiers who have died in past conflicts.
“We owe the honored dead a debt we can never fully repay,” Biden said in reference to the fallen service members. “We owe them our whole souls. We owe them our full best efforts to perfect the union for which they died.”
The president stated that the United States has to honor the sacrifices of generations of service members “by sustaining the best of America while honestly confronting all that we must do to make our nation fuller, freer, and more just.”
“Empathy is the fuel of democracy,” Biden continued. “Our willingness to see each other not as enemies, neighbors, even when we disagree, to understand what the other is going through.”
The president also warned about creeping authoritarianism across the world and said the United States “was built on an idea, the only nation in the world built on an idea. Every other nation is built on ethnicity, geography, religion, etcetera. We were built on an idea, the idea of liberty, an opportunity for all.”
An honor guard stands at attention during a Memorial Day event attended by President Joe Biden at Veterans Memorial Park at the Delaware Memorial Bridge in New Castle, Del., on May 30, 2021. (Patrick Semansky/AP Photo)
“Between dreams of democracy and appetites for autocracy, which we’re seeing around the world, our troops have fought this battle on fields around the world but also the battle of our time, and the mission falls to each of us each and every day,” Biden said.
Biden also spoke about the death of his own son, Beau, who served in the Iraq War. May 30 marked the sixth anniversary of his death.
“Remember their sacrifice, their valor, and their grace,” Biden said of slain troops. “Remember their smiles, their loves, their laughter, their essential vibrant and transcendent humanity.”
“To those who mourn a loved one today, Jill and I have some idea how you’re feeling. Our losses are not the same, but that black hole you feel in your chest, as if it’s going to suck you into it, we get.”
At one point, he also pulled out a card from his pocket and noted the number of soldiers who died during the Afghanistan and Iraq wars.
“Seven-thousand and thirty-six fallen angels who have lost their lives to these conflicts,” Biden said. “Duty, honor, and country—they lived for it, they died for it, and we as a nation are eternally grateful.”A nurse draws a dose from a vial of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine in Thornton, Colo., on March 6, 2021. (Michael Ciaglo/Getty Images)
Florida Concert Charging $18 for Vaccinated, $1,000 for Unvaccinated
People who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to get into an upcoming concert in Florida for $18 in advance or $20 at the show.
People who aren’t fully vaccinated are being charged $999.99.
The concert, featuring punk bands, is slated to take place on June 26 at VFW Post 39 in St. Petersburg.
Concertgoers who show proof of vaccination and who received their final shot on or before June 12 will be eligible for what’s being termed discounted tickets.
Others will have to pay the higher price.
“If you do not care about the discount, tickets are available for a flat rate of $999.99,” the concert’s website states.
“Everyone is eligible for a vaccine now, so if you need one, you can find out where to get one here: https://www.vaccines.gov/”
Paul Williams, a promoter, said he came up with the idea.
“We’re just trying to do a show safely. And they should go out and get vaccinated to protect themselves and their families and their community,” Williams told WFTS.
Ray Carlisle, singer and guitar player for one of the bands, Teenage Bottlerocket, supports the treatment.
“We’re all vaccinated. We encourage everyone to get vaccinated so we can see you in the pit,” he said.
Not everyone does.
“I think it’s terrible because not everyone can get the vaccine. I can’t because I had COVID too recently,” Brittney Wigen, a punk rock fan who wanted to go to the concert, told WFTS, adding that she has antibodies against the CCP virus.
Williams said he’s not a doctor so he can’t accept a doctor’s note from Wigen that would support her stance.
Carlisle had a suggestion for people who have not gotten a vaccine.
“Perhaps put together a GoFundMe and all the other weirdo anti-vaxxers can help support you going to Teenage Bottlerocket for a thousand dollars. That’s always an option,” he said.Matthew Murphy, 4, places a rose on a tombstone beside his father, Kevin Murphy, of Springfield, Va., during a volunteer event at Arlington National Cemetery ahead of Memorial Day on May 26, 2019, in Arlington, Va. (Tom Brenner/Getty Images)
This Memorial Day, a New Birth of Freedom
On Memorial Day, we honor those soldiers who gave their lives for our country.
In the Gettysburg Address, perhaps the greatest reflection in our history on such sacrifice, Abraham Lincoln refers to the fallen soldiers as having given “the last full measure of devotion.”
In our nation’s present crisis, we can learn from the devotion of which Lincoln spoke more than 150 years ago.
Speaking after the Union had won a decisive battle, he begins his address by saying: “Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, on this continent, a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure.”
This Memorial Day we are, thankfully, not fighting a civil war, but we are nonetheless engaged in a struggle for the soul of our nation.
Dangerous new ideas are challenging whether we can remain a nation “conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.”
Of course, the very meaning of equality is contested these days. Some seek to turn society in the direction of socialism in order to ensure we all have the exact same conditions of life.
The Declaration of Independence, which Lincoln highly admired, says we are “created equal.” We are equal in that all possess God-given rights. These confer on us the right to pursue happiness, but don’t guarantee anyone any particular outcome.
Critical race theory creates division in our nation as it seeks to make us unequal.
It teaches that some of us are, by virtue of skin color, racists and oppressors, while others, by virtue of skin color, are morally superior.
The proponents of critical race theory often replace our traditional practices of liberty with coercion.
Individuals in corporations and schools are subjected to re-education sessions reminiscent of China’s Cultural Revolution in which they must confess their guilt. Those who don’t risk losing their jobs.
A new spirit of intolerance abounds in our land, and many refuse to give voice to their true beliefs for fear of being shunned or worse.
Behind critical race theory lies the specter of Marxism, dressed in new clothes. It seeks to inflame the wounds our nation carries from past racism in hopes of bringing on a disease fatal to our free republic.
But this Memorial Day offers us the opportunity to begin healing our distressed nation.
Lincoln concludes his remarks at Gettysburg by saying: “It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
This Memorial Day, we need to reflect deeply on the sacrifices of those we honor. They died in devotion to the idea of America, of a free country dedicated to the proposition of equality.
So, let us now dedicate ourselves to a “new birth of freedom.” Doing so, we will, with our acts, honor our fallen heroes in the most fitting manner and safeguard the meaning of their sacrifice.
It goes without saying that as we work to revive the principles of equality and freedom, we do so steadfastly but without seeking to make enemies of those whose positions we oppose.
Near the end of the bloodiest war in our nation’s history, Lincoln was able to say, in his Second Inaugural Address, “With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in to bind up the nation’s wounds.”
The strength of our republic lies in our “firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right.”
There are those—revolutionaries who seek to use our freedom to destroy that freedom—who wish the United States ill. These we oppose with all our might.
But the great majority of the advocates of critical race theory and other pernicious ideas are themselves the victims of bad education. While we are unrelenting in opposing their ideas, we treat them with charity. We understand that as poor ideas are replaced with better ones, everyone has a healthy role to play in realizing the destiny of our nation.Video Shows Track Team Helping Fellow Runner Battling Cancer Cross Finish Line—and It Goes Viral
A high school track and field team in New York was caught on video helping their fellow runner, who is suffering from cancer, cross the finish line after enduring grueling treatment.
The video, posted by the school on Twitter, went viral and has inspired viewers across the internet.
Sherendehowa High School senior Yeva Klingbeil is shown being helped by three teammates to finish the race, before the rest of the team rush in to cheer and chant her name.
(Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
In November 2019, Yeva was diagnosed with a rare type of cancer called rhabdomyosarcoma, which affected her jaw. Before the devastating diagnosis, she was an active member of the school track team.
She began chemotherapy in 2019 to treat the cancerous mass deposit around her jaw. Unfortunately, the chemo did not go well and caused damage to her brain stem.
The damage had an adverse effect on her health. She became very weak, developed breathing complications, and lost her ability to swallow food and fluids.
She was placed in intensive care for several weeks, which saw her regain some of her functions.
Since then, the tumor around her jaw has shrunk to half its original size, though she still can’t swallow any food. She breathes on a ventilator and feeds through a tube.
Taking to Twitter, the school’s athletic department posted the video, showing the team’s excitement at having Yeva back by their side.
Yeva Klingbeil (second from the right). (Courtesy of Shenendehowa Central School District)
“What a great moment to see Senior Yeva Klingbeil at today’s girls’ track & field meet,” they captioned in the video.
“Yeva’s teammates help her across the line in the 4X1 relay. Yeva continues her fight with cancer and we continue to be amazed by her spirit!!”
The tweet garnered over 250,000 views, and judging from the number of shares and comments, followers are impressed and inspired by both Yeva and her teammates.
“This is what helps me keep my faith in humanity, despite all the bad that exists in this world,” commented Twitter user Charles Kuyper.
This was not the first time the team came through for Yeva. In November 2020, coach Cloutier organized a marathon to help raise funds for her hospital bill.
Though the team had aimed to raise $10,000, the marathon brought in a whopping $21,473.
The surplus was shared with Family Reach organization, which offers financial assistance to families with cancer patients.
“Yeva and her family pray her brain will continue healing and she will be able to breathe, walk and eat once again,” Cloutier wrote on Yeva’s fundraising page.
“While Yeva has gone through all of this and more, she has never stopped caring about her friends and family and has never given up hope of recovery.”
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterPeople wait in line to receive a dose of the Sinovac's CoronaVac vaccine during a vaccination day for 65-year-old and older citizens in Duque de Caxias near Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, on March 29, 2021. (Ricardo Moraes/Reuters)
Death Toll Exceeds a Million in Chinese Vaccine-Reliant Latin America
The death toll from the CCP virus in Latin America and the Caribbean has now exceeded 1 million.
In a statement, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) said that as of May 21, nearly 89 percent of deaths in Latin America and the Caribbean occurred in the countries of Brazil (44.3 percent), Mexico (22.1 percent), Colombia (8.3 percent), Argentina (7.3 percent) and Peru (6.7 percent). Three percent of the deaths were concentrated in Central America and 1 percent in the Caribbean.
As of May 31, Brazil had more than 462,000 deaths attributed to the pandemic, the second-highest reported death toll in the world after the United States. Mexico, with more than 223,000 deaths, ranks second in the region, followed by Colombia with more than 88,000 deaths.
Currently, the PAHO has delivered more than 12 million doses of vaccines procured through the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 vaccines global access initiative to Latin America and the Caribbean, with an additional 770,000 doses being shipped to these areas.
According to the data of the PAHO, several Latin American countries, including Chile, El Salvador, Brazil, and Uruguay, rely almost entirely on vaccines produced in China.
On May 20, the Chinese communist regime’s Xinhua News Agency reported that Chinese vaccines Sinovac, Sinopharm, and CanSino are being administered on a large scale in Latin American countries such as Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Argentina, and Peru.
The report also said that, according to the latest statistics from the PAHO, as of May 14, 26 Latin American and Caribbean countries had received more than 84 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Of these, nearly 55 million doses—or around 65 percent—were Chinese vaccines.
NBC reported on May 23 that China has shipped more than 165 million doses of Chinese vaccines to Latin America and the Caribbean in recent months.
Gao Fu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control, speaks during a State Council Information Office press conference in Beijing on Jan. 26, 2020. (Noel Celis/AFP via Getty Images)
The report quoted experts saying the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is using vaccines to advance its agenda in Latin America. Latin American officials have also said the CCP has asked Latin America to cut ties with Taiwan in exchange for the vaccine.
Many countries in South and Central America and the Middle East that have embraced communist China’s “vaccine diplomacy,” including Brazil, Chile, Pakistan, and Turkey, have seen a spike in confirmed viral infections and strong side effects among vaccine recipients after widespread administration of the Sinovac vaccine.
On April 10, at a Chinese national conference on vaccines and health, Gao Fu, director of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, admitted that China’s vaccines don’t offer much protection and that the effectiveness might be improved by using several types of vaccines in an alternating fashion.
In January, the Instituto Butantan, a leading Brazilian producer of vaccines, lowered the effectiveness rate of the Sinovac vaccine from 77.96 percent to 50.38 percent, and in March, three phases of clinical trials in Peru of the Sinopharm vaccine showed that the vaccine by Beijing Bio, a subsidiary of Sinopharm, was only 11.5 percent effective; Wuhan Bio’s vaccine was 33 percent effective, far below the CCP’s claim of nearly 80 percent.Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey answers a question about the arrival of a COVID-19 vaccine in Arizona, while Arizona Department of Health Services Director Dr. Cara Christ listens, in Phoenix, Ariz., on Dec. 2, 2020. (Ross D. Franklin, Pool/AP Photo, File)
Arizona Governor Vetoes 22 Bills, Including Election Integrity and Anti-Critical Race Theory Legislation
Arizona Republican Governor Ducey vetoed 22 bills on May 28, including measures relating to election integrity and Critical Race Theory, arguing that lawmakers need to focus on passing a budget.
“Today, I vetoed 22 bills. Some are good policy, but with one month left until the end of the fiscal year, we need to focus first on passing a budget. That should be priority one. The other stuff can wait,” Ducey wrote on Twitter. The governor, a Republican, said he won’t sign any more bills until a budget is passed.
Republicans in the state, including Arizona GOP Chairwoman Kelli Ward, noted that some of the bills that were vetoed include an election integrity measure and a bill that would prohibit entities from using taxpayer funds to promote the quasi-Marxist Critical Race Theory.
According to the Arizona Legislature’s website, House Bill 2792—which would bar the mass mailing of ballots to residents who did not request them—was vetoed on May 28 by the governor. The measure would make it a felony for an election official to send a ballot to a voter who hadn’t made that request.
Another bill that was vetoed by Ducey, Senate Bill 1074, would prohibit the Critical Race Theory training of government workers that “that presents any form of blame or judgment on the basis of race, ethnicity or sex,” reported the Arizona Mirror.
Ducey also vetoed Senate Bill 1514, which would have made the state’s Department of Housing provide emergency shelter for homeless senior residents in Maricopa County, among other pieces of legislation.
The governor also vetoed measures proposed by Democrats in the legislature, including two bills that would establish new testing and inspection requirements for marijuana dispensaries, the Mirror reported.
House Speaker Rusty Bowers, a Republican, described Ducey’s executive actions last week as disappointing.
“Truthfully, I’m not happy about it, but it’s a civics lesson reminder that it takes 31-16-1 to be successful here. Sometimes we forget about the one,” Bowers told the Arizona Mirror. “I believe that the proposed budget is good, and I’m determined to keep working with our diverse caucus until there is unity to move forward. I’m optimistic that will happen soon.”
Ward, the GOP chairwoman, was more forceful in her criticism.
“Twenty two bills that the legislative branch worked all session on. Bills that went through the process & passed & went to the executive’s desk. This tyrannical approach is dangerous to what #WeThePeople in AZ support #ElectionIntegrity #StopCRT,” Ward wrote on Twitter, referring to “CRT,” or Critical Race Theory.
But Ducey wrote that the state will “have the opportunity to make responsible and significant investments in K-12 education, higher education, infrastructure and local communities, all while delivering historic tax relief to working families and small businesses.”
“Once the budget passes, I’m willing to consider some of these other issues. But until then, I will not be signing any additional bills. Let’s focus on our jobs, get to work and pass the budget,” he said, without making reference to election measures or Critical Race Theory.
However, State Representative Mark Finchem, a Republican currently running for Arizona’s Secretary of State office, said on “War Room Pandemic” that the state legislature didn’t pass a budget because it “has so much pork in it, you’d think we were going to a barbecue,” accusing Ducey of acting as a “petty dictator.”
The Epoch Times has contacted the governor’s office for comment.Photos: The Profound Bond Between Mongolia’s Last Eagle Keepers and Their Mighty Birds
Venturing to Mongolia to meet the country’s last remaining nomadic eagle keepers, Russian photographer Daniel Kordan turned his reverence into a series of incredible photographs.
Kordan’s work, a breathtaking mixture of epic landscape photography and intimate portraiture, exemplifies the bond between the keepers and their birds—an elusive 1,000-year-old tradition that runs the risk of dying out.
Today, fewer than 300 men keep falconry in western Mongolia’s Altai region alive.
Skilled handlers train young birds of prey—golden eagles are preferred, although they are hard to train—to assist in hunting foxes and hares for meat and fur.
The practice is known to the nomads as berkutchi. Once the domain of the noble classes, berkutchi has become a right of passage for young Mongolian men of the region, reported My Modern Met.
“I’m fascinated by nomad culture,” Kordan, who used local guides to connect with nomad families, told the outlet.
“It’s an elusive culture, almost extinct nowadays,” he added. “But these people try to keep the tradition and pass it on through generations.”
“All nomad families are connected,” the photographer said. After meeting one family, doors opened; a Russian native, Kordan was able to speak easily with the elders who know Russian from Soviet times.
Eagle keepers forge a profound bond with their winged companions, and their lives are inextricably intertwined.
A day in the life of a keeper, said Kordan, begins early with meal preparation; caring for horses, sheep and goat herds; and making furs to fend off the bitter cold. In winter, nomad groups migrate thousands of kilometers across the Gobi Desert to warmer climes, deconstructing and reassembling their ger tents as they go.
“That’s lots of endurance and work,” he told the outlet.
Perhaps most surprising, Kordan said, was his realization that the Mongolian nomads enjoy their lives, despite hardship.
Caring for one bird can last over a decade. These mighty predators are usually released back into the wild when they turn 10 to 12 years old.
“The bond with the bird is so strong!” Kordan said. “Actually, even the eyes and the look of the eagle and its master resemble each other.”
Engrossed by the possibilities of photography since growing up in a beautiful lake region near Moscow, Kordan graduated art school and studied quantum physics before taking up residence behind the lens.
“Nature is my inspiration,” he states on his website.
In venturing to Mongolia and capturing his subjects on film, Kordan’s respect for eagle keeping grew exponentially. Now, the photographer, who leads workshops and expeditions himself, hopes that others will choose to help preserve these unique traditions.
The talented photographer oversees guided tours on camelback and an annual eagle-keeping festival, a smaller event than the nomads’ own berkutchi festival that has come to attract thousands of tourists.
Kordan’s festival is an opportunity for visitors to witness and photograph scenic displays of Mongolian falconry for themselves.
“I’m very happy that I can support nomadic culture in this way,” he told My Modern Met. “We need to respect our ancestors, and continuing to preserve traditional culture definitely makes our lives better and filled with purpose.”
Check more of Kordan’s fascinating work below. Enjoy!
Share your stories with us at emg.inspired@epochtimes.com, and continue to get your daily dose of inspiration by signing up for the Epoch Inspired Newsletter at TheEpochTimes.com/newsletterA woman wears a mask with the colors of the Argentine flag during a protest against how the government of President Alberto Fernández is handling the pandemic, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on May 25, 2021. (Marcos Brindicci/AP Photo)
Copa America Has No Host: Argentina Dropped Due to COVID-19
SAO PAULO—Copa America is without a host country only two weeks before kickoff after South American soccer body CONMEBOL ruled out Argentina amid an increase in COVID-19 cases in the country.
The announcement Sunday night casts doubt on a tournament which has faced major hurdles since the start of the pandemic in March of last year.
CONMEBOL said on Twitter—and it was later confirmed by an official—that it was analyzing “the offer of other nations who showed interest in hosting the continental tournament,” without naming them. It also said a new host will be announced “soon.”
Copa America is scheduled to be played between June 13 and July 10. South American teams are already training for the tournament and two rounds of World Cup qualifiers are starting this week.
Like other continental tournaments, Copa America was initially scheduled for 2020, but the COVID-19 pandemic forced its postponement. But difficulties mounted as the virus continued to strike the region hard and vaccine rollout remained slow.
Argentina is facing a surge of coronavirus infections, with strict lockdown measures imposed last weekend amid a seven-day average of 35,000 cases and 500 deaths. More than 77,000 people have died in the country due to the disease, as the virus continues to spread.
Colombia was dropped as a tournament co-host on May 20 amid a wave of protests against President Iván Duque.
Argentinian President Alberto Fernández said last week that his country was ready to host the entire tournament after the decision to remove Colombia. But on Sunday that situation changed.
“It is very hard that Copa America is played in Argentina due to the epidemiologic alert situation,” said Wado de Pedro, the country’s interior minister, in an interview to TV C5N.
The original idea of this Copa America was to start a new format with five teams based in each of the host countries. Group A features Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay; Group B includes Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. The four best teams in each group would advance to the knockout stage, and the final was originally set to played in Colombia’s Barranquilla.
It would have been the first Copa America hosted by two countries.
Qatar, the 2022 World Cup hosts, and Australia, both scheduled to play as guests, decided in February to withdraw also due to the coronavirus pandemic.
By Mauricio SavareseManchester City fans in Porto ahead of the Champions League Final, in Porto, Portugal, on May 28, 2021. (Violeta Santos Moura/Reuters)
Portugal’s Government Under Fire Over Champions League Final
LISBON—Portugal’s government has come under fire from lawmakers for sending contradictory COVID-19 messages after allowing thousands of English soccer fans to party in Porto for Saturday’s Champions League final, despite coronavirus restrictions.
In the days leading up to Saturday’s final between Chelsea and Manchester City, big crowds of English fans, who were largely maskless and did not socially distance, took over Porto’s streets to drink and chant team slogans.
“The government and Porto’s mayor should apologize to the Portuguese, who, deprived of so much, are watching this disgrace in the midst of fighting the pandemic,” opposition leader Rui Rio wrote on Twitter.
However precautions were taken which meant all fans had to present a negative COVID-19 test on arrival in Portugal, which is on the British government’s “green” list allowing tourists to visit without quarantining on their return.
Portugal suffered a devastating COVID-19 outbreak earlier this year and masks are still mandatory outdoors if people cannot observe social distancing. Drinking in public places outside of licensed terraces remains prohibited.
Some 16,500 fans were allowed into the Dragao stadium in Porto, upsetting locals who have been banned from attending matches for months. Many other English fans traveled to the city to support their teams from the sidelines.
Francisco Rodrigues dos Santos, leader of Portugal’s right-wing CDS party, also criticized the government, saying it “adopted an absolutely contradictory and inconsistent approach.”
“The way the Champions League final was organised gave a bad image of Portugal and will have unpredictable consequences on public health,” he added.
Last week, a police source told Reuters Portuguese authorities did not have enough time to fully prepare for the final as UEFA only announced it would move the event to Porto from Istanbul around two weeks ago.
Portuguese authorities decided to relax COVID-19 rules for the match last week, no longer requiring fans to stay in “bubbles” and lifting restrictions on movement.
“It is not understandable to allow an event [to take place] that is not allowed to the majority of the citizens of this country,” said Left Bloc leader Catarina Martins.
Some health experts now fear the Portuguese will be less willing to adopt coronavirus preventive measures.
Portugal’s northern region health authority on Sunday asked all those who got close to any Champions League celebrations to monitor for COVID-19 symptoms and reduce contact with others over the next 14 days.
By Catarina DemonyA city view shows the French flag above the skyline of the French capital as the Eiffel Tower and roof tops are seen in Paris on March 30, 2016. (Benoit Tessier/Reuters)
France Tightens Restrictions on Travel From UK Due to Indian Variant
Travellers from the UK will have to provide “compelling reasons” to enter France from Monday as French authorities tighten restrictions to prevent the spread of the Indian variant of coronavirus.
Travel to France from the UK will only be permitted for EU nationals, French residents, or those travelling for essential reasons.
Those who are allowed to make the journey must take a pre-departure COVID-19 test and quarantine for seven days on arrival.
The UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office (FCDO) said the new French rules apply to all air, car, ferry, and train passengers.
France is currently listed as an “amber” destination by the UK government that advises against travel there, with British authorities requiring people to self-isolate for 10 days and take two COVID-19 tests on return.
Stricter rules for visitors from the UK were first raised by French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian last week amid concern over the Indian variant.
An explanation of the new rules on the website of the Consulate General of France in London said, “Given the development of the so-called Indian variant, health measures have been tightened for people travelling to France from the UK.”
It added that from Monday morning “compelling reasons will be required for foreign nationals outside the EU not resident in France to travel to France from the UK.”
The website said “a PCR or antigen test less than 48 hours old will be required from anyone travelling to France from the UK,” while on arrival “travellers are obliged to self-isolate for seven days.”
Infographic of global COVID-19 cases and deaths at the end of May 30, 2021. (PA Graphics)
The information added that “due to the low incidence of COVID in the UK, for the moment they will not be subject to systematic checks where they are staying.”
Travellers entering France from outside the European Union, including the UK, have to sign a sworn declaration that they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and that they are not aware of being in contact with someone with the disease in the 14 days before their journey.
As well as proof of the negative pre-departure COVID-19 test for those aged 11 and over, a sworn declaration to self-isolate on arrival in France for seven days must also be made and a second PCR test taken after the quarantine.
The consulate website said that people who had been vaccinated remain subject to the same rules, adding that people are “strongly advised” to keep international travel “to a minimum.”
France’s move follows Germany starting to require people arriving from the UK to go into quarantine for 14 days, again in response to the spread of the Indian variant.
By Tom PilgrimEU Executive Urges Reopening in Summer to Vaccinated Tourists
BRUSSELS—The European Commission proposed on Monday that vaccinated people should be exempt from testing or quarantines when traveling from one EU country to another, and urged a gradual easing of travel measures as COVID-19 inoculations accelerate.
The EU reached a deal earlier this month on COVID-19 certificates that will show, via a QR code, whether a person is vaccinated, immune based on recovery from infection, or has had a recent negative test. The scheme should be ready by July 1.
The European Union executive, which is seeking to end a current patchwork of travel measures across the bloc, said on Monday that testing or quarantines should not apply to people who have been fully vaccinated 14 days prior to travel.
About half of EU adults have received a first vaccine dose.
People who have recovered from a COVID-19 infection should be exempt from restrictions for 180 days. The Commission also proposed that more reliable, but more expensive PCR tests should be valid for 72 hours and rapid antigen tests for 48 hours.
Children, who are not yet in line for vaccinations, should not have to undergo a quarantine if travelling with parents who are exempt. Those aged six and older can be subject to tests.
The Commission has also included an “emergency brake” to reimpose measures for travelers from areas where there is a surge of infections or many cases of a particular virus variant.
Travel from “dark red” areas, with more than 150 COVID-19 cases per 100,000 people over 14 days, would be “strongly discouraged,” while for green areas, with fewer than 25 cases, no restrictions would apply, the Commission proposal said.
Only Malta is currently green.
The proposal, which is being put to EU member states, is similar to that already agreed for travel from outside the bloc for vaccinated travelers and those coming from “safe” countries, although tests can still apply.
By Philip BlenkinsopPresident Donald Trump salutes as he participates in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery to commemorate Memorial Day and honor those who have died while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces in Arlington, Va., on May 25, 2020. (Nicholas Kamm/AFP via Getty Images)
Trump Pays Tribute to America’s Fallen in Memorial Day Statement
Former President Donald Trump issued a Memorial Day statement honoring the fallen as “unrivaled heroes” who gave their lives to protect “our sacred freedoms” and whose timeless legacy lights the path of “America’s glorious destiny.”
Trump made the remarks in a May 31 statement highlighting the debt of gratitude owed to fallen warriors of the U.S. armed forces and praised “the depth of their devotion, the steel of their resolve, and the purity of their patriotism.”
“On this Memorial Day, we remember the fallen heroes who took their last breaths in defense of our Nation, our families, our citizens, and our sacred freedoms,” Trump said.
“They made the supreme sacrifice so that our people can live in safety and our Nation can thrive in peace. It is because of their gallantry that we can together, as one people, continue our pursuit of America’s glorious destiny.
“We owe all that we are, and everything we ever hope to be, to these unrivaled heroes.”
Trump also called the legacy of those fallen soldiers “immortal” and our loyalty to them “eternal and everlasting.”
“America’s warriors are the single greatest force for justice, peace, liberty, and security among all the nations ever to exist on earth,” Trump said. “God bless our fallen Soldiers, Sailors, Coast Guardsmen, Airmen, and Marines.”
Trump’s statement came as President Joe Biden attended a commemorative ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia.
“All those we honor today gave their lives for the country, but they live forever in our hearts,” Biden said.
Biden praised the generations of service members who have “made the ultimate sacrifice” to protect the country and its ideals.
“We must honor their sacrifice by sustaining the best of America while honestly confronting all that we must do to make our nation fuller, freer, and more just,” he said.
Biden was joined by First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Over 1 million American service members have died in wars and other combat actions since 1775, according to the most recent Congressional Research Service report (pdf) on U.S. military operations casualties.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis departs after signing into law Senate Bill 7072 at Florida International University in Miami on May 24, 2021. (Samira Bouaou/The Epoch Times)
DeSantis Says He’ll ‘Enforce Florida Law’ Against Vaccine Passports After Cruise Line Unveils Plans
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has reiterated that his state won’t embrace so-called “vaccine passports” in the midst of confusion about whether a federally mandated system will be implemented for airplane and cruise travelers.
“We are going to enforce Florida law,” DeSantis, a Republican, said on May 30 in reference to a bill he signed earlier this month prohibiting passport-type systems.
Some cruise lines, which conduct a large amount of business in Florida, may be at risk of violating state law after Celebrity Cruises gained approval from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to require that cruise passengers and crew members show proof of vaccination.
Going a step further, DeSantis said Celebrity Cruises would be breaking Florida law if it attempted to require that passengers show proof of vaccination against COVID-19. The Florida state legislature passed Senate Bill 2006, banning passport-like systems being implemented in Florida in early May.
“You don’t pass laws and then not enforce them against giant corporations. It doesn’t work that way,” DeSantis said on May 28.
After the CDC shut down cruise operators last year during the pandemic, the federal health agency said cruises can resume under more stringent guidelines.
DeSantis said that the agency, however, “does not have the authority” to shut down cruise lines.
Despite statements from the governor, Celebrity Cruises—a subsidiary of cruise giant Royal Caribbean—said through a spokesperson that they’ll proceed with their plans and will require people to show proof of vaccination.
“We are working to finalize our health and safety measures for cruises departing from U.S. ports, including Florida, in collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as local authorities in the U.S. and destinations we visit,” Celebrity Cruise spokesperson Susan Lomax told USA Today.
“Our commitment to sail with fully vaccinated crew members and guests still stands as it is a meaningful layer to ensure we make every effort to help keep safe our guests, crew, and the communities we visit.”
Vaccine passports have been criticized by DeSantis, other Republicans, and civil liberties groups for potentially creating a two-tiered society consisting of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. Another concern, raised by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and pro-privacy groups, highlights that health agencies and private companies would be able to more easily gain access to the health records of U.S. citizens, potentially violating the 1996 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
The federal government has shown little interest in creating or enforcing a passport-type system. After Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas told ABC News on May 28 that there’s some consideration of implementing such a system for airplane travelers, a White House press secretary told reporters later in the day that the administration has not “moved our stance” on the issue.Voters line up to cast their ballots in Fort Worth, Texas. in a file photo. (Photo by Ron Jenkins/Getty Images)
Texas Senate Passes Major GOP-Backed Election Reform Bill
The Texas state Senate passed a sweeping election overhaul bill on May 30 that has been criticized by high-profile Democrats over provisions that they say expands restrictions and penalties.
The legislation was approved largely along party lines after an overnight debate stretched into the morning of May 30, according to local media. The House had a deadline of midnight on May 30 to approve the proposal.
The measure would grant more power to poll watchers by giving them more access inside polling areas, while creating new penalties against election officials who restrict poll watchers’ movements. The proposal would also allow a judge to void the outcome of an election if the number of fraudulent votes could change the result.
Officials who send mail-in ballots to people who didn’t request them may also face criminal penalties, according to the bill.
Previously, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, signaled that he supports such election measures.
According to a tweet from the Texas District and County Attorneys Association, at least 16 new or enhanced crimes related to elections were included in the bill.
State Sen. Bryan Hughes, a Republican, said that the measure would keep Texas’s elections fair and honest.
“We want elections to be secure and accessible,” said Hughes, who authored the bill, according to the Dallas Morning News.
During the Senate session, Hughes said his bill has “common sense” mandates against fraud, the Texas Tribune reported.
“The provisions of this bill apply equally across the board,” Hughes said in response to allegations from Democrats that the bill would restrict minority voters.
Over the weekend, President Joe Biden weighed in on the bill, alleging in a statement that it “attacks the sacred right to vote.”
“It’s part of an assault on democracy that we’ve seen far too often this year—and often disproportionately targeting black and brown Americans,” Biden said.
The president wasn’t the only high-profile Democrat to weigh in on the Texas bill.
“The Texas law is shameful and Republicans clearly, in Texas and throughout the country, want to make it harder to vote and easier to steal an election,” Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), a member of House Democrats’ leadership, told CBS News on May 30. “That’s the only way I can interpret the voter suppression epidemic that we see working its way from one state, Georgia, to Arizona to Texas and all across the country.”
Marc Elias, a lawyer who has filed a number of election-related lawsuits on behalf of Democrats, signaled that he will file a lawsuit in the coming days.
“States to watch for NEW voting rights litigation (in order of likelihood) 1. Texas,” he wrote on Twitter on May 30.
Elias also filed a lawsuit to challenge an election integrity bill that was signed into law in Florida several weeks ago.
In addition to Florida and Texas, a number of Republican-led states have pushed for or have passed laws meant to add new safeguards to elections, drawing considerable condemnation from Democrats, who have claimed Republicans are trying to rig voting in their favor.
In mid-May, Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican, signed a bill that updated the eligibility requirements to remain on the state’s early voting list in a bid to make elections more secure.